{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww18540\viewh17280\viewkind0\viewscale100\ri-3040\lin0\rin0\xebookmark0
\papercolorF5EFDC
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f3\fnil\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f4\fnil\fcharset0 Helvetica-BoldOblique;\f5\fnil\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f6\fnil\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-BoldItalicMT;\f7\fnil\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-BoldMT;\f8\fnil\fcharset0 Courier New;\f9\fnil\fcharset0 Courier New;}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red68\green68\blue68;\red21\green21\blue21;\red161\green212\blue200;\red105\green105\blue105;\red89\green89\blue89;\red45\green45\blue45;\red24\green24\blue24;\red242\green124\blue110;\red80\green80\blue77;\red38\green38\blue36;\red124\green124\blue126;\red161\green161\blue161;}
\pard
{\*\background {\shp{\*\shpinst\shpleft0\shptop0\shpright0\shpbottom0\shpfhdr0\shpbxmargin\shpbymargin\shpwr0\shpwrk0\shpfblwtxt1\shpz0\shplid1025{\sp{\sn shapeType}{\sv 1}}{\sp{\sn fFlipH}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fFlipV}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fillColor}{\sv 16117724}}{\sp{\sn fFilled}{\sv 1}}{\sp{\sn lineWidth}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn fLine}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn bWMode}{\sv 9}}{\sp{\sn fBackground}{\sv 1}}}}}
\ql
\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\
\
\
\sl-768\slmult1\li1020\ql
\f1\fs52 \cf3 Wa\\ter \tab Beniamin\tab \f2\fs54\ul \cf9  \tab \ul0 ,\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\sl-552\slmult1\li2480\f3\b\fs50 \cf4 Illuminations\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\fi140533\sl240\slmult1\li3440\f4\i\fs30 \cf3 Essays \cf11 and Re\
\sl-336\slmult1\li2840\f5\i0\fs34 \cf10 . \f4\i \cf11 I\
\fi210800\sl-264\slmult1\li2480\fs30 ecttons\
\
\
\fi140533\sl-1080\slmult1\li4320\f6\fs100 \cf0 Jlluminations\
\
\
\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li2980\f7\i0\fs16 TRANSLATED  BY HARRY ZOH\
\
\
\
\sl624\slmult1\li3000EDITED AND  WITH  AN  INTRODUCTION BY HANNAH ARENDT PREFACE BY LEON  WIESELTIER\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li4260\fs20 SCHOCKENBOOKS    .   NEWYORK\
\
\
\
\sl312\slmult1\li2620\fs16 English translation  copyright\'a9 1968 by Harcourt Brace jovanovich, Inc. Introduction copyright \'a9 r 968 by Hannah  Arendt\
\sl-192\slmult1
Preface copyright\'a9 \fs12 2007 \fs16 by Leon Wieseltier\
\fi5\sl288\slmult1\li2600\f4\i All \f7\i0 rights reserved. Published in the United States by Schocken Books, a division of Random House, Inc., New York. Originally published in Germany by Suhrkamp Verlag, Frankfurt a.M. copyright\'a9 1955 by Suhrkamp Verlag, Frankfurt \fs18 a.M.\
\
\fi140533\sl240\slmult1\li2620\fs16 Published by arrangement with Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, Inc. (A He1en and Kurt\
Wolff Book)\
\sl480\slmult1\li2600This reprint omits pages 141-144 of the original Harcourt, Brace \f5 & \f7 World edition. The  intmduction to this book, by Dr. Hannah  Arendt, appeared originally as an arti\'ad\
\sl240\slmult1\li2620cle in \f4\i The Ne1.v Yorke1:\
\
\f7\i0 Acknowledgment is made for permission  to quote from the following:\
\li2780From \f4\i The Trial, \f7\i0 by Franz Kafka, b.'ans. by Edwin and Willa Muir. Copyright\'a9\
\li26401937 and renewed 1965 by Alfred A. Knopf, Inc.\
\li2780From \f4\i The Castle, \f7\i0 by Franz Kafka. Copyright\'a9 1930, 1954 and renewed 1958 by\
\li2620Alfred A. Knopf, Inc. Reprinted by permission of the publisher.\
\
Library of Congress  Catalogjng-in-Publication Data\
Benjamin, Walter,  r892-1940.\
\li2780Illuminations.\
Translation of: Illuminationen.\
\fi153\sl312\slmult1\li2640Reprint. Originally  published: New York: Harcourt, Brace \f5 & \f7 World, 1968. "A Helen and Kurt Wolffbook"-Verso  t.p.\
\fi140533\sl-192\slmult1\li2780hlcluded  bibliographical references and index.\
\fi164\sl216\slmult1\li2620\f5 I. \f7 Literature-Addresses, essays, lectures.    \f5 I. \f7 Arendt, Hannah.   II. Title. PN37.B44 r 3    r 9\fs24 s\fs16 5    \f8\fs24 so\f7\fs16 9    \fs24 s\fs16 5\f8\fs12 -2\f7\fs16 7s65\
\fi140533\sl240\slmult1
ISBN 978-o-8os2-024r-o\
\
Printed  in the United States of America\
\sl648\slmult1\li2640First Schocken paperback edition published in r969 ['og] \f4\i 9 \f7\i0 8  7  \f4\i 6  5 \f7\i0 4  3 \fs10 2\
\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li3020\fs16 PREFACE  BY LEON  WIESELTIER \tab Vll\
\
\
INTRODUCTION\
\li3420\f4\i\fs20 W'alter Benjamin: I892-I940, \f7\i0\fs22 by \fs20 Hannah Arendt\tab \fs14 1\
\
\li3020\fs16 UNPACKING MY LIBRARY\
\li3400\f4\i\fs20 A Talk about Book Collecting\tab 59\
\
\li3020\f7\i0\fs16 THE TASK  OF THE TRANSLATOR\
\sl-192\slmult1\li3400\f4\i\fs20 An Introduction to the Translation\
\sl-312\slmult1\li3440of Baudelaire\fs32 s \f7\i0\fs20 Tableaux parisiens\tab \f4\i 69\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li3020\f7\i0\fs16 THE STORYTELLER\
\li3400\f4\i\fs20 Reflections on the Works of Nikolai Leskov \tab \f7\i0 83\
\
\li3020\fs16 FRANZ  KAFKA\
\li3420\f4\i\fs20 On the Tenth Anniversary of His Death \tab \f5\i0\fs16 r \fs14 I\
\
\li3020\f7\fs16 SOME  REFLECTIONS ON  KAFKA\tab 141\
\
WHAT IS EPIC  THEATER?\tab 14\f5\fs20 7\
\
\li3040\f7\fs16 ON  SOME  MOTIFS IN  BAUDELAIRE\tab I \f4\i\fs20 55\
\
\li3020\f7\i0\fs16 THE IMAGE  OF  PROUST\tab 201\
\
THE WORK  OF ART  IN  THE AGE OF MECHANICAL REPRODUCTION\tab 2 I \f5\fs20 7\
\
\f7\fs16 THESES ON  THE PHILOSOPHY OF HISTORY\tab \fs20 253\
\
\li3040\fs16 EDITOR's NOTE\tab \fs20 265\
\
\li3020\fs16 INDEX OF NAMES \tab \fs20 269\
\
\
\
\
\
\li2940\fs32 Preface\
\
\f4\i\fs30 by \fs28 Leon  Wieseltier\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\fi22\li2900\f7\i0\fs20 It is hard to imagine a time when Walter Benjamin was not a god (or an idol) of criticism, but I can remember when, in my own student days, not so long ago, he was only an exciting rumor. It was the pub- \'b7 lication of \f4\i Illuminations, \f7\i0 and then a few years later of \f4\i Reflections, \f7\i0 these lovingly assembled and beautifully translated volumes, that confirmed the rumor. These were the books that brought the news. I can report that \f5 in \f7 the bookshops around Columbia in its roiled years, before Broadway became a boulevard of theory, they were snatched up immediately and read with a hushed. fascination. No sooner was Benjamin known  than  he was revered. I encountered  Benjamin's name for the first time in the ornate dedication to \f4\i Major Trends in Jewish Mysticism, \f7\i0 the masterwork (talk about bringing the news!) of his devoted and disappointed friend Gershom Scholem> which was published a year after Benjamin's refugee suicide: "To the memory of Walter Benjamin (1892-I94o), the friend of a lifetime, whose genius united the insight of the Metaphysician, the interpretative power of the Critic, and the erudition of the Scholar-died at Port Bou (Spain) on his way into freedom." This is still the most elementary character\'ad ization of Benjamin's dense and elusive mind. It prepared me for the most significant quality of Benjamin's accomplishment, and also of\
\
\fi140533\li3280\qc
\f4\i vii\
\
\li2960\ql
\f7\i0 .  \f4\i P1\'b7eJace\
\
\sl-240\slmult1\li2680\qj
\f7\i0 his spirit: among the great modern intellectuals, he was the one who least added up.\
\fi204
Benjamin's great dispersal, enacted first by his mentality and then by his history, made him especially attractive. l-Ie was a naturally unsystematic man, a hero of fragmentation in the line ofNovalis and\
\fi140533
Schlegel and Nietzsche. And yet he was not an enemy of old philoso\'ad\
\fi11\sl240\slmult1\li2660phy, not at all. To a degree that is still not adequately appreciated, Benjamin was happily steeped in German philosophy, and regarded his critical task as the philosophical analysis of literature and culture. In his restless and scattered way, he was carrying on the work of Hegel's \f4\i Aesthetics, \f7\i0 a foundational and unjustly discarded work that may be preposterous in its cosmic ideas but is magnificent in its local ideas. Benjamin had a similar gift for applying abstractions to plea\'ad sures. And to his explanatory fervor he added a fervor for observa\'ad tion: he saw more, in books and \f5 in \f7 places, than other people did, and he saw differently. The strangeness that you encounter upon reading Benjamin for  the first time is almost a cognitive strangeness:  he makes everything no longer familiar. His incompetence at ordinary living allowed him to see it more sharply. Like many of the insurgent children of the German Jewish bourgeoisie, he believed that banality was the enemy of life; but his anti-banalizing energy, the ferocity with which he mined the most commonplace objects and events for explosive meanings, was almost diabolical. ("The everyday as impen\'ad etrable,  the impenetrable  as everyday.") In  his memoirs  as in his essays, he seemed to require of every perception that it be a revolu\'ad tion. It was his premise that nothing is what it appears to be, and this made him into a scholar of appearances. He  had an unappeasable appetite for the marginal and the idiosyncratic, because deviance looked to him like an epistemological advantage. Nothing  that was not neglected could be true. All this led Benjamin into the under\'ad ground of esoteric interpretation.\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1\li2880\ql
\fs22 In \fs20 his temperament and in his method, Benjamin was an esoteri\'ad\
\fi11\li2680\qj
cist. He was modernity's kabbalist. In his turgidly enchanted world there were only mysteries, locked and unlocked. His infatuation with Marxism, the most embarrassing episode of his mental wanderings,\
\fi140533
the only time that he acquiesced in the regimentation  of his own\
\sl240\slmult1
mind, may be understood as merely the most desperate of his exer\'ad\
cises in arcane reading. The text, this time, was history; but tl1ere was\
\
\li3060\ql
\f4\i viii\
\
\li3320Preface\
\
\fi5\li2940\qj
\f7\i0 nothing that was not a text, for Benjamin. He was the most bookish of the agitator-intellectuals. (He looked ridiculous in the Ibiza sun.) He textualized the universe. This was because he was essentially an exegete, a glossator. Everything he wrote was commentary.The Paris Arcades project is, among other things, a milestone in the history of commentary, an astounding renovation of an old point of regard for a new reality. Like the great medieval commentators, Benjamin demonstrated  by example that commentary  may be an instrument of originality. And in his case, not only of originality, but also of redemption: in Benjamin's view, interpretation  does not so much dis\'ad cover meaning as release it, and loose it upon the world so as to liber\'ad ate it. Benjamin read messianically. Insight, for him, was a variety of intoxication. Indeed, his quest for delirium in criticism made his political writings  finally useless for  politics. "The   realization  of dream  elements  in waking is the  textbook  example of dialectical thinking": no government ever trembled before such a dialectic. For all his proclamations of political solidarity, Benjamin finally repre\'ad sented  only himself, and his own introverted  and inextinguishable hunger for a secret knowledge, an initiation, a revelation. He was a failed mystic living amid failed sanctities, and struggling against the failures.\
\fi204
These volumes may be read almost as a spiritual diary. They give a portrait  of a pilgrim. But this pilgrim makes no progress, and his story at some point ceases to be stirring, and becomes alknating, and then  crushing. It is not  only the evil circumstances of Benjamin's death  that leave one with a gathering  pity for him. His dispersal comes to seem cunning, vain, frantic, sometimes dilettantish, some\'ad times animated by an aspiration to cultural power--a  dazzling dis\'ad traction from the possibility that there may have been nothing lasting at the core. Benjamin can be at once overflowing and vacant; a stu\'ad dent of hiddenness nervously in hiding; a pilgrim without a shrine. Scholem begged Benjamin to make a choice and a commitment (and to make the choice and the commitment that he himself had made); and whereas it is true that Scholem was almost monstrous \f5 in \f7 his con\'ad sistency of purpose over the years, he was right to worry about the spiritual implications of Benjamin's indecisiveness. And this indeci\'ad siveness, which may have cost Benjamin his life, was unattractively joined to a weakness for dogmatic certitude. The  uncertainty  that\
\
\fi140533\li3340\ql
\f4\i ix\
\
\li3000Preface\
\
\fi11\li2640\qj
\f7\i0 Scholem deplored was really a petrification by certainty, or a series of such petrifications. Benjamin's work was scarred by a high ideological nastiness, as when he mocked "the sclerotic liberal-moral-humanistic ideal of freedom" (as if Europe \f5 in \f7 his day was suffering from a surfeit of this), and speculated acidly about the belief in "the sacredness of life" (or from a surfeit of this), and responded with perfect diffidence to the censorship and the persecution of writers in the Soviet Union, which he coldly described as "the transfer of the mental means of production into public ownership." The  pioneering explorer of memory worshipped history too 1nuch. He also wrote too much: he advised writers to "never stop writing because you have run out of ideas," and often he acted on his own advice. I confess that there are many pages in Benjamin that I do not understand, in which the dis\'ad course seems to be dictating itself, and no direction is clear. Like many esotericists, he abuses the privilege of obscurity.\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1\li2840\ql
And yet Benjamin's writings are uncommonly rich with penetrat\'ad\
\fi5\sl240\slmult1\li2640\qj
ing and prescient notions: the impoverishment of experience in mod\'ad ernlife; the primacy of memory as a mode of consciousness; the aura of the work of art, and its eclipse in the age of mechanical (not to speak of electronic) reproduction;  the hope for "profane illumina\'ad tion"; the eternal entanglement of barbarism with civilization; the critical utility of the messianic idea-all these notions are justly cele\'ad brated, as are his luminous examinations of Goethe and Baudelaire and Kafka and Kraus. Benjamin's work is evidence of the light that a religious sensibility may shine upon secular existence. There are cer\'ad tainly very few critics who can match his power of suggestiveness: his ideas and intuitions have a way of lingering productively, even when you quarrel with them. In the application of philosophical concepts to cultural and social actualities, his decidedly unmystical friend Adorno was his only peer. Philosophical thinking  retained its old role, for Benjamin: it was his best defense against despair. There still is no better one.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\fi140533\li3000\ql
\f4\i\fs12 X\
\
\
\
\li3240\f7\i0\fs32 Introduction\
\
\li3220\f4\i\fs34 'Walter  Benjamin: \fs24 1892-1940\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\li3240\f7\i0\fs16 I.  THE  HUNCHBACK\
\
\fi306\li2940\qj
\fs20 Fama, that  much-coveted  goddess, has many  faces, and  fame comes \f5\fs22 in \f7\fs20 many sorts  and sizes-from the  one-week  notoriety  of the cover story  to  the splendor  of an everlasting  name. Posthu\'ad mous fame  is one  of Fama's rarer  and  least desired  articles, al\'ad though  \fs22 it \fs20 is less arbitrary and often  more  solid  than  the  other sorts, since it is only  seldom bestowed  upon  mere  merchandise. The  one who stood most to profit is dead and hence it \fs22 is \fs20 not for sale. Such posthumous fame, uncommercial  and unprofitable,  has now  come in Germany  to  the name and  work  of  Walter  Ben\'ad jamin, a  German-Jewish  writer  who  was  known,  but  not  fa\'ad mous, as contributor to magazines and literary  sections of news\'ad papers for  less than  ten years prior  to  Hitler's  seizure of  power and his own emigration. There  were few who still knew his name when  he chose death in those early fall days of 1940 which  for many of his origin and generation marked the darkest moment of the war-the fall of France, the threat  to England,  the still intact Hitler-Stalin  pact whose most feared consequence at that moment was the close co-operation  of the two  most powerful  secret  po\'ad lice forces in Europe. Fifteen years later a two-volume  edition of\
\
\fi140533\li3020\ql
\f4\i llluminations\
\fi5\li2660\qj
\f7\i0 his writings  was published in Germany  and brought  him almost immediately a \f4\i\fs24 succes \fs20 dtestime \f7\i0 that went far beyond  the recogni\'ad tion among the few  which  he had known  in his life. And since mere reputation,  however  nigh, as it  rests on  the  judgment  of the best, is never enough for  writers and artists to make a living\
\fi140533
that only fame, the testimony of a multitude which need not be astronomical in size, can guarantee, one is doubly  tempted  to say (with Cicero\}, \f4\i Si vivi vicissent qui morte vicerunt-how \f7\i0 different everything  would  have been "if they  had been victorious in life who have won victory  in death."\
\fi294
Posthumous fame is too odd a thing to be blamed upon the blindness of  the  world  or  the  corruption of  a literary  milieu. Nor  can it be said that it is the bitter  reward  of those who were ahead  of  their  time-as though   history  were  a  race  track   on which some contenders run so swiftly that they simply disappear from  the spectator's  range  of  vision. On  the  contrary,  posthu\'ad mous fame is usually preceded by the highest recognition  among one's peers. When  Kafka died in 1924,  his few  published books had not sold more than a couple of hundred  copies, but  his lit\'ad erary friends and the few readers who had almost accidentally stumbled  on te\
\fi5
yet published)  knew beyond doubt  that  he was one of the mas\'ad ters of modern prose. Walter Benjamin had won such recognition early, and not only among those whose names at that  time were still unknown, such as Gerhard  Scholem, the friend of his youth, and Theodor Wiesengrund  Adorno,  his first  and  only  disciple, who  together  are responsible for  the  posthumous  edition  of  his works and letters.\f5\fs12 1 \f7\fs20 Immediate, instinctive, one is tempted  to say, recognition  came from  Hugo  von Hofmannsthal,  who published Benjamin's essay on Goethe's \f4\i Elective Affinities \f7\i0 in 1924, and from\
\fi140533\sl-216\slmult1
Bertolt  Brecht;  who  upon  receiving  the  news  of  Benjamin's\
\sl-240\slmult1\li2680death is reported  to have said that this was the first real loss Hit\'ad\
\sl240\slmult1
ler had caused to German literature. We  cannot  know if there is such a thing as altogether  unappreciated  genius, or whether  it is the daydream  of those who are not geniuses; but we can be rea.. sonably sure that  posthumous fame will not be their lot.\
\sl-264\slmult1\li2980\ql
Fame is a social phenomenon; \f4\i\fs22 ad gloriam non \fs20 est \fs22 satis \fs20 unius\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li3060\fs14 2\
\
\fi5\li3040\qj
\fs24 opinio \f7\i0\fs20 (as Seneca remarked  wisely and  pedantically), "for  fame the  opinion  of  one  is not  enough,"  although  it  is enough  for friendship and love. And no society can properly  function  with\'ad out classification, without  an arrangement  of  things  and  men in classes and  prescribed  types. This  necessary  classification is the basis for  all  social  discrimination,  and  discrimination,   present opinion to the contrary notwithstanding,  is no less a constituent element of the social realm than equality is a constituent  element of the political. The  point is that in society  everybody  must an\'ad swer the question of \f4\i\fs24 what \f7\i0\fs20 he is-as  distinct  from  the question of\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1
\f4\i\fs24 who \f7\i0\fs20 he is-which \f4\i\fs24 his \f7\i0\fs20 role is and his function,  and  the answer  of\
\sl-216\slmult1\li3060course  can  never  be: I  am unique,  not  because of  the  implicit\
\fi5\sl240\slmult1\li3040arrogance  but  because the answer would  be meaningless. In  the case of Benjamin the  trouble  (if such  it  was)  can  be diagnosed in retrospect  with  great  precision; when  Hofmannsthal  had read the long  essay on  Goethe  by  the  completely  unknown  author, he called it \f4\i\fs22 "schlechthin unvergleichlich" \f7\i0\fs20 ("absolutely  incom\'ad parable"), and  the  trouble  was  that  he  was  literally  right,  it could  not  be compared  with  anything  else \f5\fs22 in \f7\fs20 existing literature. The trouble with everything Benjamin wrote was that it always turned  out to  be \f4\i\fs24 sui generis.                                                    \f7\i0 \'b7\
\fi140533\sl-216\slmult1\li3360\ql
\fs20 Posthumous  fame seems, then,  to  be the  lot  of  the  unclassi\'ad\
\sl-240\slmult1\li3060\qj
fiable ones, that  is, those whose  work  neither  \fs22 fits \fs20 the  existing order  nor introduces  a new genre that lends itself to future  clas\'ad\
\sl-264\slmult1
sification. InnumerabJe attempts  to write  \fs34 a \fs20 la Kafka, all of them\
\sl-216\slmult1
dismal failures,  have only  served  to  emphasize  Kafka's  unique\'ad\
\fi5\sl240\slmult1
ness, that absolute\'b7 origina1ity which  can  be traced  to no  prede\'ad cessor and suffers  no  followers. This  is what  society  can  least come  to terms with  and upon  which  it  will always be very  re\'ad luctant  to bestow its seal of approval. To  put it bluntly, it would be as misleading today  to recommend  Walter  Benjamin as a lit\'ad erary  critic and essayist as it would  have been misleading to recommend  Kafka  in 1924  as a short-story writer  and  novelist. To  describe  adequately  his work  and  him as an  author  within our  usual framework  of  reference,  one  would  have to  make  a great many negative statements, such as: his erudition  was great, but  he was no scholar;  his subject  matter  comprised  texts  and\
\
\fi140533\li2960\ql
\f4\i Illuminations\
\fi11\li2600\qj
\f7\i0 their interpretation, but  he was no philologist; he was greatly attracted   not  by  religion  but  by  theology  and  the  theological type  of interpretation for  which  the text itself is sacred, but  he was no theologian and he was not particularly  interested  in  the Bible; he was a born writer, but his greatest ambition was to pro\'ad duce  a work  consisting. entirely  of quotations;  he was the  first German  to  translate  Proust   (together   with  Franz  Hessel)  and St.-John  Perse,  and  before  that  he  had  translated  Baudelaire's \f4\i\fs22 Tableaux parisiens, \f7\i0\fs20 but  he was no translator;  he reviewed books and wrote  a number of essays on living and dead writers, but  he was no literary  critic;  he wrote  a  book about  the German  ba\'ad roque and left behind a huge unfinished study  of the French nineteenth  century,  hut  he was no  historian,  literary  or  other\'ad wise; I shall try  to show that he thought  roetically, but  he was neither a poet nor a philosopher.\
\fi300
Still, in the  rare moments when  he cared  to  define what  he was doing, Benjamin thought  of himself as a literary  critic,  and if  he can  be said at  all to  have aspired to  a  position in  life it would  have been that  of "the  only  true  critic  of German  liter\'ad ature"  (as Scholem put it in one of the few, very beautiful letters \f5\fs16 tJ \f7\fs20 the  friend  that  have  been  published),  except  that  the  very notion of thus becoming a useful member of society  would  have repelled  him.  No  doubt   he  agreed  with  Baudelaire, \f4\i\fs22 "IJ:.tre  un horn:me utile \fs24 m'a \fs22 paru toujours quelque chose  \fs24 de \fs22 bien hideux."\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1\li2620\f7\i0\fs20 In  the introductory paragraphs  to  the essay on  \f4\i\fs22 Elective  \fs20 Affini\'ad\
\fs22 ties, \f7\i0\fs20 Benjamin explained what he understood  to be the task of the\
\sl-216\slmult1
literary  critic. He  begins by  distinguishing between  a commen\'ad\
\fi5\sl240\slmult1
\fs24 tary \fs20 and  a  critique.  (Without mentioning. \fs22 it,  \fs20 perhaps  without even being aware of it, he used the term  \f4\i\fs22 Kritik, \f7\i0\fs20 which in normal usage means criticism, as Kant used it when he spoke of a \f4\i\fs22 Critique of Pure Reason.)\
\
\fi277\sl-192\slmult1
\f7\i0\fs20 Critique  [he wrote] is concerned  with the truth content of a work of art,  the commentary with  its subject  matter.  The  relationship  be\'ad tween  the two is determined by that  basic law of literature according to which  the  works\
\fi140533\sl-216\slmult1
conspicuously and  intimately it is bound  up  with  its subject  matter. If therefore precisely  those works  turn  out  to endure  whose  truth  is\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li2980\ql
\f4\i\fs18 4\
\
\sl-216\slmult1\li2940\qj
\f7\i0\fs20 most deeply embedded in their subject matter, the beholder who con\'ad templates them long after their own time finds the \f4\i realia \f7\i0 all the more striking  \f5 in \f7 the  work  as they  have faded  away  in  the  world.  This means that  subject  matter  and truth  content,  united  in  the  work's early period, come apart  during its afterlife;  the subject  matter  be\
comes more striking  while the truth  content  retains its original con\'ad\
cealment. To  an ever-increasing extent, therefore,  the  interpretation\
of the striking and the odd, that is, of the subject matter, be omes\
\fi5
prerequisite for any later critic. One may liken him to a paleographer in front  of a parchment whose faded text is covered by the stronger outlines of  a script  referring  \f5\fs16 to \f7\fs20 that  text. Just  as the  paleographer would have to start with reading the script, the critic must start with commenting on his text. And out of this activity  there arises imme\'ad diately an inestimable criterion  of critical  judgment:  only  now  can the critic ask the basic question of all criticism..:..namely, whether  the\
\fi140533\sl216\slmult1\li2960work's shining truth  content  is due to its subject  matter  or whether the survival of the subject  matter is due to the truth  content. For as they come apart in the work, they decide on its immortality. \f5 In \f7 this\
\fi5\li2940\ql
sense the history of works of art  prepares their critique, and this is why  historical distance increases their power. \f5 If, \f7 to \'b7use a simile, one views the growing  work  as a funeral  pyre, its commentator  can be likened to the chemist, its critic  to an alchemist. While  the former is left with wood and ashes as the sole objects of his analysis, the lat\'ad ter is concerned only with the enigma of the flame itself: the enigma of being alive. Thus  the critic inquires about  the truth  whosliving flame goes on burning over the heavy logs of the past and the light ashes of life gone by.\
\
\fi289\sl240\slmult1\li2960\qj
\fs22 The  critic as an alchemist practicing the  obscure art  of transmuting the futile elements of the real into the shining, en\'ad during gold of truth, or rather watching and interpreting the historical process that brings about such magical transfiguration\'ad whatever we may think of this figure, it hardly corresponds to\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1\li2980\'b7anything we usually have \fs24 in \fs22 mind when we classify a writer as a literary critic.\
\fi294\sl240\slmult1
There  \fs24 is, \fs22 however, another less objective element than  the mere \fs20 fact  of being  unclassifiable which  is involved  \fs22 in \fs20 the  life  of \fs22 those who "have won victory in death." It is the element of bad\
\fi5\sl-240\slmult1
luck, and this factor, very prominent in Benjamin's life, cannot be ignored here because he himself, who probably never thought\
\fi140533
or dreamed aQout posthumous fame, was so extraordinarily aware\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li3340\ql
\f4\i\fs18 5\
\
\li3040\fs20 llluminations\
\
\fi11\li2680\qj
\f7\i0 of it. In  his writing  and also in conversation  he  used to  speak about  the "little  hunchback,"  the \f4\i "bucklicht Mamzlein," \f7\i0 a  Ger\'ad man fairy-tale  figure  out  of  \f4\i Des \fs22 Knaben Wundethorn, \f7\i0\fs20 the  fa\'ad mous collection  of German  folk poetry.\
\
\fi140533\sl216\slmult1\li3020\ql
Will  ich in mein' Keller gebn, Will  mein Weinlein zapfen; Steht  ein bucklicht  Mannlein\
\sl-192\slmult1\li3200da,\
\sl-216\slmult1
Tat mir\f5\fs8 1\f7\fs20 n Krug  wegschnap- pen.\
\
\fi210800\sl216\slmult1\li2480Will  ich in mein  Kiichel  gehn, Will  mein Siipplein  kochen; Steht  ein bucklicht  Minnlein\
\fi140533\sl-216\slmult1\li2660da,\
\li2480Hat mein Topflein brochen.\bullet \
\
\fi11\sl240\slmult1\li2660\qj
The  hunchback was an early acquaintance of Benjamin, who had first met him when, still a child, he found the poem in a children's book, and he never forgot.  But only once  (at the end of \f4\i\fs24 A Ber\'ad \fs22 lin  Childhood  around  \fs18 1900)\f5\i0\fs8 t     \f7\fs20 when  anticipating   death  he  at\'ad tempted to get hold of "his 'entire life' ... as it is said to pass be\'ad fore  the eyes of the dying/' did he clearly state  who and what it was that  had terrified  him so early in life and was to accom\'ad pany him until his death. His mother, like millions of other moth\'ad\
\fi140533\li2680ers in Germany,  used to say, "Mr. Bungle sends his regards" (\f4\i Ungesehickt  liisst griissen) \f7\i0 whenever one of the countless little catastrophes  of childhood  had taken place. And  the child knew of course what  this strange  bungling was all about. 'The mother referred  to  the  "little  hunchback,''  who  caused  the  objects  to play their mischievous tricks upon children; it was he who had tripped you up when you fell and knocked the thing out of your hand  when  \fs22 it  \fs20 went  to  pieces. And  after  the  child  came  the grown-up man who  knew  what  the child was still ignorant  of, namely, that it was not he who had provoked "the  little one''  by looking at him-as though  he had been the \'b7boy who  wished  to learn what fear  was-but that  the hunchback  had looked at  him and that bungling  was a misfortune. For "anyone  whom  the lit\'ad tle man looks at \fs24 pays \fs20 no attention; not to himself and not to the\
\
\li2840\qc
\fs18 \bullet  When  I go down to the cellar\
\sl-168\slmult1\li3000\ql
There  to draw some wine,\
\sl-192\slmult1\li2980\f5 A \f7\fs20 little \fs18 hunchback  who's \fs20 in \fs18 there\
Grabs that  jug \f4\i\fs20 of  \f7\i0\fs18 mine.\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li3040\f4\i 6\
\
\sl192\slmult1\li2520\f7\i0 When  \f5\fs16 I \f7\fs18 go into \f5 my \f7 kitchen, There  \fs20 my \fs18 soup to  make,\
\sl-192\slmult1\li2480A little hunchback  who's in there\
\li2500\f5 My \f7 little  pot did break.\
\sl240\slmult1\li3040\qj
\fs22 little man. In  consternation he stands before  a  pile of  debris"\
\sl-264\slmult1\li3080\f4\i\fs20 (Schriften \f7\i0\fs22 I, \fs20 650-52).\
\sl-216\slmult1\li3340\ql
\fs22 Thanks to the recent publication of his letters, the story  of\
\fi5\sl240\slmult1\li3040\qj
Benjamin's life may now be sketched in  broad  outline; and it would be tempting indeed to tell it .as a sequence of such piles of  debris since  there  \fs20 is  \fs22 hardly  any  question  that  he  himself viewed it in that  way. But the  point of  the  matter is that  he knew very well of the mysterious interplay, the ,place "at which weakness and genius coincide," which  he so masterfully diag\'ad nosed in Proust. For he was of course also speaking about him\'ad self  when,  in  complete  agreement, he  quoted  what  Jacques Riviere had said about Proust: he "died of the same inexperience that permitted him to write his works. He died of ignorance ... because he did not know how to make a .fire or open a window, ("The  Image of  Proust").  Like  Proust,  he  was  wholly  inca\'ad pable of changing "his life's conditions even when  they  were about to crush him." (With a precision suggesting a sleepwalker his clumsiness invariably guided him to the very center of a mis\'ad fortune, or wherever something of the sort might lurk. Thus, in the winter of \fs20 1939-40  \fs22 the danger of bombing made him decide to leave Paris for a safer place. Well, no bomb was ever dropped on Paris, but Meaux, where Benjamin went, was \fs20 a  \fs22 troop center and probably  one of  the very  few  places in  France  that  was seriously endangered \f5\fs20 in  \f7\fs22 those months of  the phony  war.)  But like Proust, he had every reason to bless the curse and to repeat the strange prayer at the end of the folk poem with which \fs20 he \fs22 closes his childhood memoir:\
\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1\li3420\ql
\fs20 Liebes \fs22 Kindlein, ach, \fs20 ich \fs22 bitt,\
\sl-216\slmult1
\fs20 Bet furs  \fs22 bucklicht \fs20 Mannlein \fs22 mit.*'\
\
\fi294\sl216\slmult1\li3060\qj
In retrospect, the inextricable net woven of merit, great gifts, clumsiness, and misfortune into  which his life was caught  can be detected even in the first pure piece of luck that opened Ben\'ad jamin's career as a writer. Thr ugh\
\fi140533\sl-264\slmult1
he had been able to place "Goethe's \f4\i\fs20 Elective Affinities" \f7\i0\fs22 in Hof-\
\sl240\slmult1\li3240\ql
\fs18 \bullet  0 dear child, I beg of you,\
\sl-192\slmult1\li3360Pray  for  the little hunchback  too.\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li3420\f5 7\
\
\li2980\f4\i\fs20 Illuminations\
\fi11\sl216\slmult1\li2600\qj
\f7\i0\fs22 mannsthal's \f4\i Neue  Deutsche  Beitriige \f7\i0 (\fs20 1914-25).  \fs22 This  study,  a masterpiece of German prose and still of unique stature in the general field of  German  literary  criticism and  the  specialized field of Goethe scholarship, had already been rrjected  several times, and Hofmannsthal's enthusiastic approval came at a mo\'ad ment when Benjamin almost despaired of ".finding a taker for it, \f4\i (Briefe \f7\i0 I, \fs20 300). \fs22 But there was a decisive misfortune, apparently never fully  understood, which  under  the  given circumstances was necessarily connected with  this chance. The  only material security which this first public breakthrough  could have led to was the \f4\i Habilitation, \f7\i0 the first step of the university career for which Benjamin was then preparing himself. This,  to  be sure, would not yet have enabled him to make a living-the so-called. \f4\i Privatdozent \f7\i0 received no salary-but it would probably have in\'ad duced his father to support him until he received a full profes\'ad sorship, since this was a common practice in those days. It is now hard to understand how he and his friends could ever have doubted that a \f4\i Habilitation \f7\i0 under a not unusual university pro\'ad fessor was bound to  end. with a catastrophe. \f5 If \f7 the gentlemen involved declared later  that  they  did  not  understand a single word of the study, \f4\i The Origin of  German Tragedy, \f7\i0 which Ben\'ad jamin had submitted, they can certainly be believed. How were they to understand a writer whose greatest pride it was that "the writing consists largely of quotations-the  craziest mosaic tech\'ad nique imaginable"-and  who placed the greatest emphasis on the six mottoes that preceded the study: "No  one ... could gather any rarer or more precious ones"? \f4\i (Briefe \f7\i0 I, 366). It was as if a real master had fashioned some unique object,  only to offer it for sale at the nearest bargain center. Truly, neither anti-Semitism nor \f5 ill \f7 will toward an outsider-Benjamin had taken his degree in Switzerland during the war and was no one's disciple-nor  the customary academic suspicion of anything that is not guaranteed to be mediocre need have been involved.\
\fi306
However-and this is where bungling and bad luck come in\'ad in the Germany of that time there was another way, and it was precisely his Goethe essay that spoiled Benjamin's only  chance for  a university career. As often with Benjamin's writings, this\
\
\fi140533\sl240\slmult1\li2960\ql
\f4\i\fs20 8\
\fi5\qc
\f7\i0 study  was inspired by polemics, and the attack  concerned  Fried\'ad rich  Gundolf's  book on Goethe.  Benjamin's critique  was defini\'ad tive, and yet Benjamin could  have expected  more unde.rstanding from  Gundolf  and  other  members of  the  circle  around  Stefan George,  a  group   with  whose  intellectual  world   he  had  been quite  fall)iliar in his\'b7 youth,  than  from  the  "establishment";  and he probably  need not have been a member of the circle  to earn his academic accreditation  under  one of  these men who  at  that time were  just beginning to get a fairly comfortable  foothold  in the academic world. But the one thing  he should not  have done was to mount an attack on the most prominent  and most capable academic  member of  the  circle so vehement  that  everyone  \fs24 was \fs20 bound  to  know,  as he  explained  retrospectively   later,  that  he had "just as little to do with academe ... as with the monuments which   men   like   Gundolf   or   Ernst   Bertram   have   erected."\
\fi140533\sl-288\slmult1\li3000\ql
\f4\i\fs22 (Briefe \f7\i0\fs20 II,  \f4\i\fs26 sz \f7\i0\fs20 3).  Yes, that is how it was. And  it was Benjamin's\
\sl-216\slmult1\li2980bungling or his misfortune  to have announced  this to the world\
\sl240\slmult1
tJefore he was admitted 'to  the university.\
\fi311\li2960\qj
Yet one certainly  ca'lnot say that he consciously  disregarded due  caution. On  the  contrary,  he was aware  that  "Mr.  Bungle sends his regards''  and  took  more  precautions  than  anyone  else \f5 I \f7 have known. But his system of provisions against possible dan\'ad gers, including  the "Chinese courtesy"  mentioned  by  Scholem,\fs12 2 \fs20 invariably, in a strange and mysterious way, disregarded  the real danger. For  just as he fled from  the safe  Paris to  the dangerous Meaux at the beginning of the war-to  the front,  as it were-his essay on Goethe  inspired  in him the wholly  unnecessary  wor.ty that  Hofmannsthal  might  take amiss  a  very  cautious  critical  re\'ad mark  about  Rudolf  Borchardt,  one  \f4\i of   \f7\i0 the  chief  contributors to his periodical.  Yet  he  expected  only good  things  from  having\
\fi11\sl216\slmult1\ql
found  for this ''attack  upon the ideology of George's  school ... this  one  place  where  they  will  find  \fs22 it  \fs20 hard  to  ignore  the  in\'ad vective"  \f4\i (Briefe \f7\i0 I, \fs18 341 ). \fs20 They  did not find it  hard at all. For no one was more isolated than Benjamin, so utterly alone. Even the authority cf Hofmannsthal-"the new patron," as Benjamin called him  in  the  first  burst  of  happiness  \f4\i\fs22 (Briefe \f7\i0\fs20 I,  317)-could  not alter this situation. His voice hardly  mattered  compared with the\
\
\fi140533\sl240\slmult1\li3020\f4\i Illumi114tions\
\fi5\li2660\qj
\f7\i0 very  real power  of  the George  school, an  influential group  in which,   as  with   all  such   entities,  only   ideological  allegiance counted,  since only  ideology,  not  rank  and  quality,  can hold  a group   together.  Despite   their   pose  of   being  above  politics, George's  disciples were  fully  as conversant  with  the basic prin\'ad ciples of literary  maneuvers as the professors were with the fun\'ad damentals of academic politics or the hacks and  journalists with the ABC of "one good  tum deserves another."\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1\li2960\ql
Benjamin, however, did not know  the score. He never knew\
\fi5\sl240\slmult1\li2660\qj
how to handle such things, was never able to move among such people, not even when "the adversities of outer life which some\'ad times come from  all sides,\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1
ready  afforded  \f5 him, \f7 some insight into  the  ways  of  the  world.\
\sl240\slmult1
Whenever  he tried to adjust and be co-operative so as to get some firm  ground  under  his feet  somehow,  things  were  sure  to  go wrong.\
\fi294
A major study  on Goethe  from  the viewpoint  of Marxism\'ad in the middle twenties he came very close to joining the Com\'ad munist Party-never appeared in print, either  in the Great  Rus\'ad sian Encyclopedia,  for  which it was intended,  or in present-day Germany.   Klaus  Mann,  who  had  commissioned  a  review   of Brecht's  \f4\i Threepenny Novel  \f7\i0 for  his  periodical  \f4\i Die Sammlung,\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1\li2640\f7\i0 returned  the manuscript  because Benjamin had asked \fs14 2 \f4\i\fs32 so \f7\i0\fs20 French\
\sl-192\slmult1\li2660francs-then about  to dollars-for \fs24 it \fs20 and he wanted  to  pay only\
\fi22\sl192\slmult1\li2640\fs12 1\f4\i\fs32 so. \f7\i0\fs20 His commentary  on Brecht's  poetry  did  not  appear in  his lifetime. And the most serious difficulties finally developed with\
\fi11\sl240\slmult1\li2620\qc
the  Institute  for  Social  Research,  which,  originally   (and  now again)  part  of  the  University  of  Frankfurt, had  emigrated  to America and on which Benjamin depended financially. Its guiding spirits, Theodor W. Adorno  and Max Horkheimer, were "dialec\'ad tical materialists" and  in  their  opinion  Benjamin's thinking  was "undialectic,"  moved  in  "materialistic  categories,  which  \f5 by  \f7 no means coincide with  Marxist ones," was "lacking  in  mediation" insofar as, in an essay on Baudelaire, he had related "certain  con\'ad spicuous elements within  the  superstructure  ... directly,  per haps even causally, to  corresponding  elements  in  the  substruc\'ad ture." The  result was that  Benjamin's original essay, "The  Paris\
\
\fi140533\li3020\ql
\f4\i\fs14 10\
\fi28\sl216\slmult1\li3000\qr
\f7\i0\fs22 of  the Second  Empire in the  Works  of  Baudelaire," was not printed, either  then in the magazine of  the  Institute  or  in the posthumous two-volume edition of his writings. (Parts of it have now been published-"Der Flaneur" in \f4\i\fs24 Die Neue Rundschau; \f7\i0\fs22 De\'ad cember \fs20 1967, \fs22 and "Die Moderne" in \f4\i\fs24 Das Argument, \f7\i0\fs22 March \fs20 1968.) \fs22 Benjamin probably was the most peculiar Marxist ever pro\'ad duced by this movement, which God knows has had its full share of oddities. The  theoretica1 aspect that was bound  to fascinate him was the  doctrine  of  the superstructure,  which  was  only briefly sketched by  Marx but  then assumed a disproportionate role in the movement as it was joined by  a disproportionately large number of intellectuals, hence by people who were inter\'ad ested  only  in  the  superstructure.  Benjamin used  this doctrine only as a heuristic-methodological stimulus and was hardly in\'ad terested in its historical or philosophical background. What  fas\'ad cinated him about the matter was that the spirit and its material manifestation were so intimately connected that  it seemed per\'ad missible to  discover everywhere  Baudelaire's \f4\i\fs24 correspondances, \f7\i0\fs22 which clarified and illuminated one another if they were prop\'ad erly correlated, so that finally they would no longer require any interpretative  or  explanatory  commentary.  He  was concerned with the correlation between a street scene, a speculation on the\
\fi5\li3020\qj
stock exchange, a poem, a thought, with the hidden line which holds them together and enables the  historian or  philologist to recognize that they must a1l  be placed in the same period. When Adorno criticized Benjamin,s "wide-eyed presentation of actual\'ad ities" \f4\i\fs24 (Briefe \f7\i0\fs22 II, \fs20 793 ), \fs22 he hit the nail right  on its head; this is precisely what Benjamin was doing and w nted\
\fi140533
influenced by surrealism, \fs20 it \fs22 was the "attempt  to capture the por\'ad trait of history in the most insignificant representations of reality, its scraps, as it wereH \f4\i\fs24 (Briefe \f7\i0\fs22 II, \fs20 685). \fs22 Benjamin had a passion for small, even minute things; Scholem tells about  his ambition to get one hundred lines onto the ordinary page of a notebook and about his admiration for two grains of wheat in the Jewish sec\'ad tion of the Musee Cluny "on which a kindred soul had inscribed the complete \f4\i\fs24 Shema Israel." \f7\i0\fs12 3 \fs22 For him the size of an object was in an inverse ratio to its significance. And this passion, far from\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li3400\ql
\f4\i\fs12 II\
\
\li2960\fs20 Illuminations\
\fi5\li2600\qj
\f7\i0 being a whim, derived directly  from  the  only  world  view that ever had a decisive influence on him, from  Goethe's  conviction of  the factual  existence of an  \f4\i Urphiinomen, \f7\i0 an archetypal  phe\'ad nomenon, a conc;rete thing  to be discovered in the world  of ap\'ad pearances in whir:h "significance"  \f4\i (Bedeutung, \f7\i0 the most Goeth\'ad ean of words, keeps recurring  in Benjamin's writings)  and appearance, word and thing, idea and experience, would coincide. The  smaller the object,  the more likely  it seemed that  it  could contain in the most concentrated  form everything  e]se; hence his delight that two grains of wheat should contain  the entire \f4\i Shema \fs22 Israel, \f7\i0\fs20 the very  essence of Judaism, tiniest  essence appearing  on tiniest entity, from which in both cases everything  else originates that,  however,  in significance cannot  be compared  with  its ori\'ad gin. In other  words, what  profoundly  fascinated  Benjamin from the  beginning  was never an idea, it  was always  a phenomenon. "What seems \'b7paradoxical about  everything  that  is  justly called beautiful is the fact  that it appears"  \f4\i (Schriften \f7\i0 I, 349), and this paradox-or, more simply, the wonder of appearance-was always at the center  of all his concerns.\
\fi0\li2580How  remote these studies were from  Marxism and dia1ectical materia1ism is confirmed by their central .figure, the \f4\i fidneur. \fs12 4 \f7\i0\fs20 It is to him, aimlessly strolling through  the crowds  in the big cities in studied contrast to their hurried, purposeful activity, that things reveal themselves in their secret  meaning: "The true  picture  of the past \f4\i flits \f7\i0 by" (uPhilosophy of History"), and only the \f4\i flaneur \f7\i0 who  idly  strolls  by  receives  the  message. With   great  acumen Adorno has pointed to the static element in Benjamin: "To under\'ad stand Benjamin properly  one must feel behind his every sentence the conversion of extreme agitation into something static, indeed, the static  notion  of  movement  itself"  \f4\i (Schriften \f7\i0 I, xix).  Natu\'ad rally, nothing  could  be more "undialectic" than  this attitude  in which the "angel of history"  (in the ninth of the "Theses on the Philosophy of History") does not dialectically move forward  into the future,  but has his face "turned  toward  the  past." "Where a chain of events appears to \f4\i us, he \f7\i0 sees one single catastrophe which keeps piling wreckage upon wreckage and hurls it in front  of his feet. The  angel would  like  to  stay, awaken  the  dead, and  join\
\
\fi140533\li2960\ql
\f4\i\fs12 12\
\sl216\slmult1\li3000\qj
\f7\i0\fs22 together what has been smashed to pieces." (Which  would pre\'ad sumably mean the end of history.) "But a storm is blowing from Paradise" and "irresistibly propels him into the future  to which his back \fs20 is \fs22 turned, while the pile of ruins before him grows sky\'ad ward. What  we call progress is \f4\i this \f7\i0 storm." In this angel, which Benjamin saw in Klee's "Angelus Novm.,  the \f4\i fidneur \f7\i0 experiences his final transfiguration. For just as the \f4\i fidneur, \f7\i0 through the \f4\i gestus \f7\i0 of purposeless strolling, turns his back to the crowd  even as he is propelled and swept by it, so the "angel of history," who looks at nothing but the expanse of ruins of the past, is blown back\'ad wards into the future by the storm of progress. That such think\'ad ing should ever have bothered with a consistent, dialectically sensible, rationally explainable process seems absurd.\
\fi209
It should also be obvious that such thinking neither aimed nor could arrive at binding, generally valid statements, but that these were  replaced, as 'Adorno  critically remarks, "by  metaphorical ones" \f4\i\fs20 (Briefe \f7\i0\fs22 II, 785). In his concern with directly, actually demonstrable concrete facts, with single events and occurrences whose 'significance"\
\fi5\li3020ested in theories or "ideas" which did not immediately assume the most precise outward  shape imaginable. To  this very  complex but still highly rea1istic mode of thought  the Marxian relation\'ad ship between superstructure and substructure  became, in a pre\'ad cise sense, a metaphorical one. \f5 If, \f7 for  example-and  this would certainly  be in the spirit of Benjamin's thought-the abstract concept  \f4\i\fs20 V \fs22 ernunft \f7\i0 (reason)  is traced  back to  its origin in  the vecb \f4\i\fs20 vernebmen \f7\i0\fs22 (to perceive, to hear), it may be thought that a word  from  the sphere of the superstructure  has been given back its sensual substructure, or, conversely, that a concept  has been transformed into a metaphor-provided that "metaphor"  is understood  in  its original, nonallegorical sense of  \f4\i\fs20 metapherein \f7\i0\fs22 (to  transfer).  For a m taphor\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1
sensually perceived in its immediacy and  requires no interpre\'ad\
tation, while an allegory always proceeds from  an abstract no\'ad\
\fi5
tion and then invents something palpable to represent it almost at will. The  allegory must be explained before  it  can become meaningful, a solution must be found to the riddle it presents, so\
\
\fi140533\sl240\slmult1\li3400\ql
\f4\i\fs16 1,3\
\
\li2980\fs20 llluminationr\
\fi17\li2580\qj
\f7\i0 that  the  often  laborious interpretation of  allegorical  figures al\'ad ways  unhappily   reminds  one  of  the  solving  of  puzzles  even when no more ingenuity is demanded than in the allegorical rep\'ad resentation  of  death  by a skeleton. Since  Homer  the  metaphor has borne  that  element of  the  poetic which  conveys  cognition; its  use establishes the  \f4\i correspondances \f7\i0 between  physically  most remote things-as when in the \f4\i\fs22 Iliad \f7\i0\fs20 the tearing onslaught  of fear and grief on the hearts of the Achaians corresponds  to the com\'ad bined onslaught  of the winds from  north  and west on  the dark waters  \f4\i (Iliad \f7\i0 IX, 1-8);  or  when  the  approaching  of  the  army moving to battle in line after  line corresponds  to  the sea's long billows which, driven  by  the wind; gather  head far  out  on the sea, roll  to shore  line after  line, and  then  burst  on  the  land  in thunder  \f4\i (Iliad \f7\i0 IV, 412-13). Metaphors  are the  means by  which the oneness of the world is poetically brought  about. What  is so hard  to understand about  Benjamin is that  without  being a poet he \f4\i thought poetically \f7\i0 and therefore was bound to regard the metaphor   as  the  greatest  gift  of  language.  Linguistic  "trans\'ad ference"  enables us to  give  material  form  to  the  invisible-"A mighty  fortress  is our  God"-and thus  to  render  \fs24 it \fs20 capable  of being experienced. He  had no trouble understanding  the theory of the superstructure as the final doctrine  of metaphorical  think\'ad ing-precisely because without  much ado and eschewing all "me\'ad diations,, he directly related the superstructure to the so-called "materiar' substructure,  which  to him meant  the totality  of sen\'ad sually experienced data. He evidently was fascinated by the very thing  that  the others branded  as "vulgar-Marxist" or "undialec\'ad tical" thinking.\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1\li2780\qc
It seems plausible that Benjamin, whose spiritual  existence had\
\li2600\qj
been formed  and informed  by Goethe,  a poet and  not a philos\'ad opher,  and  whose  interest  was  almost  exclusively  aroused  by poets and novelists, although  he had studied  philosophy,  should have found  it easier to communicate  with  poets than with  theo\'ad\
\li2620reticians, whether  of the dialectical or the  metaphysiCal variety. And  there  is indeed  no  question  but  that  his  friendship  with\
\li2600Brecht-unique in that here the greatest living German  poet  met the  most important   critic  of  the  time, a fact  both  were  fully\
\
\fi5\sl240\slmult1\li2980\qc
aware  of-was the  second  and  incomparably   more  important stroke  of  good  fortune  in  Benjamin's life. It  promptly   had  the most  adverse  consequences;  it  antagonized  the  few  friends  he had, it endangered  his relation to the Institute of Social Research, toward  whose "suggestions"  he had every reason "to  be docile" \f4\i\fs22 (Briefe \f7\i0\fs20 II,  683 ),  and  the  only  reason  it  did  not  cost  him  his friendship  with Scholem was Scholem's abiding loyalty  and  ad\'ad mirable  generosity  in  all  matters  concerning   his  friend.  Both Adorno   and  Scholem  blamed  Brecht's  "disastrous  influence,  \fs14 5 \fs20 (Scholem)  for  Benjamin's clearly  undialectic  usage of  Marxian categories  and  his determined  break  with  \fs24 all \fs20 metaphysics;  and the  trouble  was that  Benjamin, usuaJiy quite  inclined  to  com\'ad promises albeit  mostly  unnecessary  ones, knew  and  maintained that  his friendship  with Brecht  constituted  an absolute limit not only  to docility  but  even  to diplomacy, for  "my  agreeing with Brecht's  production is one of the most important  and most stra\'ad tegic points in my entire  position" \f4\i\fs22 (Briefe \f7\i0\fs20 II, 594). In Brecht  he\
\fi140533\sl-216\slmult1\li3000\qj
found a poet of rare intellectual powers and, almost as important\
\sl240\slmult1
for  him at  the  time, someone on  the Left  who,  despite  all talk about  dialectics, was no  more  of  a  dialectical  thinker  than  he was, but  whose  intelligence  was uncommonly  close  to  reality. With  Brecht he could practice what Brecht himself called "crude thinking, ( \f4\i\fs22 das plumpe Denken):  \f7\i0\fs20 "The main  thing  is  to  learn how to think crudely. Crude thinking, that is the thinking  of the great,"  said Brecht, and Benjamin added by way  of elucidation: "There are many people whose idea of a dialectician is a lover of subtleties.... Crude  thoughts,  on  the contrary, should  be part and parcel  of dialectical thinking,  because they  are  nothing  but the referral  of  theory  to  practice  . . . a thought  must  be crude to come into its own in action." \fs12 6  \fs20 Well,  what attracted  Benjamin to crude  thinking  was probably  not so much a referral  to prac\'ad tice as to  reality,  and  to  him this reality  manifested  itself  most directly  in the proverbs and idioms of everyday language. "Prov\'ad erbs are a school of crude  thinking,"  he writes in the same con\'ad text; and  the  art  of  taking  proverbial  and idiomatic  speech  \fs22 lit\'ad \fs20 erally  enabled  Benjamin-as it  did  Kafka,  in  whom  :figures of speech are often clearly discernible as a so rce\
\
\li3400\ql
\f4\i\fs16 IJ\
\sl-240\slmult1\li2640\f7\i0\fs22 furnish  the  key to many a "riddle"-to write  a  prose of such singularly enchanting and enchanted closeness to reality.\
\
\
\fi306\sl216\slmult1\li2620\qj
Wherever one looks in Benjamin's life, one will find the little hunchback. Long before the outbreak of the Third Reich he was playing his evil tricks, causing publishers who  had promised Benjamin an annual stipend for reading manuscripts or editing a periodical for them to go bankrupt before the first number ap\'ad peared. Later the hunchback did allow a collection of magnifi\'ad cent German letters, made with infinite care and provided with the most marvelous commentaries, to be printed-under the title \f4\i Deutsche Menschen \f7\i0 and with the motto \f4\i "Von Ehre obne Ruhmj Von Grosse obne GlanzjVon  Wurde obne Sold"  \f7\i0 (Of  Honor without Fame/Of Greatness without Splendor/Of  Dignity with\'ad out Pay); but then he saw to it that it ended in the cellar of the bankrupt  Swiss publisher, instead of  being  distributed,  as in\'ad tended by Benjamin, who signed the selection with a pseudonym, in Nazi Germany. And in this cellar the edition was discovered in \fs20 1961,  \fs22 at the very moment when a new edition had come off the press in Germany. (One  would also charge it to  the little hunchback  that often the few things that were to take a good tum first presented themselves in an unpleasant guise. A case in point is the translation of \f4\i Anabase \f7\i0 by Alexis Saint-Leger Leger [St.-John Perse)  which Benjamin, who  thought  the  work  "of little importance''  \f4\i [Briefe \f7\i0 I,  \fs20 381],   \fs22 undertook  because, like the Proust translation, the assignment had been procured for him by Hofmannsthal. The translation did not appear in GermanY.: until after the war, yet Benjamin owed to \fs20 it  \fs22 his contact  with Leger, who, being a diplomat, was able to intervene and persuade the French  government to spare Benjamin a second internment in France during the war-a  privilege that very few other refugees enjoyed.) And then after mischief came "the piles of debris," the last of which, prior to the catastrophe at the Spanish border, was the threat  he had felt, since \fs20 1938,  \fs22 that  the Institute  for Social Research in New York, the \fs20 only \fs22 "material and moral support'' of his Paris existence \f4\i (Briefe \f7\i0 II, 839), would desert him. "The\
\
\fi140533\sl240\slmult1\li3040\ql
\f9\i\fs20 16\
\
\fi5\li2920\qj
\f7\i0 very circumstances that greatly  endanger  my European  situation will probably  make emigration to the U.S.A. impossible for me," so he wrote  in April of 1939 \f4\i\fs22 (Briefe \f7\i0\fs20 Il, 81o), still under  the im\'ad pact  of  the  "blow"   which  Adorno's   letter  rejecting   the  first version of  the Baudelaire study  had dealt  him in  November  of\
\fi140533\sl-264\slmult1\li29401938 \f4\i\fs22 (Briefe \f5\i0\fs20 II, \f7 790).\
\sl-216\slmult1\li3220\ql
Scholem  is surely  right  when  he says  that  next  to  Proust,\
\fi5\sl240\slmult1\li2920\qj
Benjamin felt the closest personal affinity with Kafka among con\'ad temporary  authors, and undoubtedly  Benjamin had the "field of ruins and  the disaster area" of  his own  work  in mind  when  he wrote that "an u:tderstanding of [Kafka's]  production involves, among other  things, the simple recognition  that he was a failure)) \f4\i\fs22 (Briefe \f7\i0\fs20 II, 614). What  Benjamin said of Kafka with  such unique aptness applies  to  himself as well:  "The   circumstances  of  this failure are multifarious. One is tempted  to say: once he was cer\'ad \fs18 t\fs20 n of eventual failure, everything  worked  out for  him \f4\i\fs22 en route\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1
\f7\i0\fs20 as in a dream"  \f4\i\fs22 (BriefP \f7\i0\fs20 II, 764). He did not need to read Kafka to\
\sl-216\slmult1
think  like Kafka. When  "The Stoker"  was all  he  had  read  of\
\sl240\slmult1
Kafka, he had already  quoted  Goethe's  statement  about  hcpe in his essay on  \f4\i\fs22 Elective Affinities: \f7\i0\fs20 "Hope passed over  their  heads like a star that falls from  the sky"; and the sentence  with  which he concludes  this study  reads as though  Kafka  had  written  it: "Only  for the sake of the hopeless ones have we been given hope" \fs22 (\f4\i Schriften  \f7\i0 I, \f5\fs16 r \f7\fs20 40).\
\sl-216\slmult1\li3220\ql
On September  16,  1940, Walter  Benjamin, who was about  to\
\fi11\sl240\slmult1\li2880\qc
emigrate to America, took  his life at the Franco-Spanish  border. There  were  various  reasons for  this. The  Gestapo  had  confis\'ad cated  his Paris apartment,  which  contained  his library   (he  had been able to get "the  more important  ha]f" out of Germany)  and many of his manuscripts, and he had reason to be concerned  also about  the  others  which,  through   the  good  offices of  George Bataille, had been placed i11  the Bibliotheque  Nationale  prior  to his flight  from  Paris  to  Lourdes,  in  unoccupied  France.\fs12 7  \fs20 How was he to  live without   a  library,  how  could  he  earn  a living without    the   extensive  collection   \f4\i\fs22 of   \f7\i0\fs20 qtJotations  and   excerpts among his manuscripts?  Besides, nothing  drew  him  to  America, where, as he used to say, people would  probably  find  no other\
\
\fi140533\li3300\ql
\f9\i 11\
\
\fi11\li2680\qj
\f7\i0 use for  him than  to cart  him up and  down  the  country  to  ex\'ad hibit him as the "last European." But the immediate occasion for Benjamin's  suicide  was  an   uncommon   stroke   of   bad   luck. Through the armistice agreement between Vichy  France and the Third  Reich, refugees  from  Hitler  Germany-/es \f4\i\fs22 refugies  \fs24 pro\'ad \fs20 venant d'Allemagne, \f7\i0 as they were officially referred to in France\'ad were in danger  of being shipped back to Germany, presumably only if they were political opponents. To save this category  of refugees-which, it should be noted, never included  the unpolit\'b7\
\fi5
ical mass of Jews who later turned out to be the most endangered of all-the United States had distributed  a number  of emergency visas through  its consulates in unoccupied France. Thanks  to the efforts of  the Institute  in New  York, Benjamin was among  the first  to  receive such  a visa in  Marseilles, Also, he  quickly  ob\'ad tained a Spanish transit visa to enable him to get  to Lisbon and board a ship there. However,  he did not have a French  exit visa, which at that time was still required and which the French  gov\'ad ernment, eager to please the Gestapo, invariably  denied  to Ger\'ad man refugees. In general this presented no great  difficulty, since a relatively short  and none  too arduous  road  to  be covered  by foot  over  the mountains  to Port  Bou was well known  and  was not  guarded  by  the  French  border  poJice. Still, for  Benjamin, apparently  suffering  from  a cardiac  condition  \f4\i\fs22 (Briefe \f7\i0\fs20 II,  841 ),\
\fi140533\sl-216\slmult1
even the shortest  walk  was a great exertion,  and  he must  have\
\fi5\sl240\slmult1
arrived in a state of serious exhaustion. The small group  of refu\'ad gees that  he had  joined reached  the Spanish border  town  only to learn that Spain had closed the border  that same day and that the border  officials did  not  honor  visas made out  in  Marseilles. The  refugees  were  supposed  to return   to  France  by  the same route the next day. During the night Benjamin took his life, whereupon the border officials, upon whom this suicide had made an impression, allowed  his companions  to  proceed  to  Portugal. A few weeks later the embargo on visas was lifted again. One day earlier Benjamin would  have got  through  without  any  trouble; one day later the people in Marseilles would have known  that for the time being it was impossible to pass through  Spain. Only  on that particular  day was the catastrophe possible.\
\
\
\fi140533\li3300\ql
\fs16 II,    THE  DARK TIMES\
\
\sl216\slmult1\li3360\f4\i\fs20 "Anyone who cannot cope with life while he is alive needs one hand to ward off a little his despair over his fate \f7\i0 ... \f4\i but with his other hand he can jot down what he sees among the ruins, for be\
\sl240\slmult1
sees different and more things than the others; after ali, be is dead in his own lifetime and the real survivor/'\
\sl-168\slmult1\li4880\f7\i0 -Franz Kafka, \fs12 DIARIEs,   \fs20 entry of October  \fs18 19, \fs12 192I\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li3360\f4\i\fs20 "Like one who keeps afloat on a shipwreck by climbing to the top of a mast that is already crumbling. But from there he bas a chance to give a signal leading to his rescue.',\
\sl-168\slmult1\li5780\f7\i0 -Walter Benjamin in a letter to\
\sl-216\slmult1
Gerhard Scholem dated April \fs16 17, 1931\
\
\fi0\sl240\slmult1\li2980\qj
\fs20 Often  an era most clearly brands with its seal those who have been least influenced  by it, who  have been most remote  from  it, and  who  therefore  have suffered  most. So it  was with  Proust, with  Kafka, with  Karl  Kraus, and  with  Benjamin. His  gestures and  the  way  he held  his head when  listening  and  talking;  the way  he moved; his manners, but especially his style  of speaking, down to his choice of words and the shape of his syntax; finally, his downright idiosyncratic  tastes-all this seemed so old-fash\'ad ioned, as though  he  had  drifted  out  of  the  nineteenth  century into  the  twentieth   the  way  one  is driven  onto  the  coast  of  a strange land. Did he ever feel at home in twentieth-century Ger\'ad many? One has reason to doubt  it. In  I9IJ,  when  he first visited France  as a very  young  man, the  streets  of Paris were  "almost more homelike"  \f4\i (Briefe \f7\i0 I, 56) to  him after  a few days than  the familiar streets of Berlin. He may have felt even then, and he certainly  felt twenty  years later, how much the trip  from Berlin to Paris was tantamount  to a trip in time-not from  one country to  another,  but  from  the  twentieth  century   back  to  the  nine\'ad teenth.  There  was the \f4\i nation par excellence  \f7\i0 whose  culture  had determined the Europe of the nineteenth century  and for which Haussmann  had rebuilt  Paris, "the  capital of the nineteenth  cen\'ad tury,"  as Benjamin was to call it. This  Paris was not  yet  cosmo-\
\
\fi5\li2640po1itan, to be sure, but it was profoundly  European,  and thus it has, with  unparalleled  naturalness, offered  itself  to  all homeless people as a second home ever since the middle of the last century. Neither the pronounced xenophobia of its inhabitants nor the sophisticated  harassment by  the  local police has ever  been  able to change this. Long before his emigration  Benjamin knew  how "very exceptional [it was] to make the kind of contact  with a Frenchman   that  would  enable  one  to  prolong   a  conversation with  him beyond  the first quarter  of an hour"  \f4\i\fs22 (Briefe \f7\i0\fs20 I, 445 ).\
\fi140533\sl-216\slmult1
Later,  when  he was domiciled in Paris as a refugee,  his innate\
\sl240\slmult1\li2620nobility\'b7 prevented  him from  developing his slight  acquaintances\
\fi11
-chief among them was Gide-into connections and from making new contacts.  (Werner Kraft-so we learned recently-took  him to see Charles du Bos, who was, by virtue of his ''enthusiasm for German  literature,'' a kind of key figure for  German emigrants. Werner  Kraft  had the better  connections-what irony!  \fs12 8) \fs20 In  his strikingly   judicious review  of  Benjamin's  works  and  letters  as well as of the secondary  literature, Pierre Missac has pointed out how greatly  Benjamin must have suffered because he did not get the "reception" in France that was due him.\fs12 9  \fs20 This  is correct, of course, but it surely did not come as a surprise.\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1\li2920\ql
No matter how irritating and offensive all this may have been,\
\fi11\sl240\slmult1\li2620\qj
the city  itself compensated  for  everything.  Its boulevards, Ben\'ad jamin discovered  as early as 1913, are formed  by  houses which "do not seem made to be lived in, but are like stone sets for  peo\'ad ple to  walk  between"  \f4\i\fs22 (Briefe \f7\i0\fs20 I, 56). This  city,  around  which one still can travel  in a circle  past the  old gates, has remained what the cities of the Middle Ages, severely walled off and pro\'ad tected against the outside, once were: an interior, but without  the narrowness  of  medieval streets, a generously  built  and  planned open-air \f4\i\fs22 irzterieur \f7\i0\fs20 with the arch of the sky like a majestic ceiling above it. "T:.e  finest thing  here about  all art  and  all activity  is the fact  that  they  leave the few remainders of  the  original  and the  natural  their  splendor"  \f4\i\fs22 (Briefe \f7\i0\fs20 I,  421).  Indeed,  they  help them to acquire new luster. It is the uniform  fa ades,\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1
streets like inside walls, that  make one feel more physically  shel\'ad\
tered in this city  than in any other. The  arcades which  connect\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li2980\ql
\f4\i\fs14 .20\
\
\li3000\qc
\f7\i0\fs20 the great boulevards and offer protection  from inclement weather exerted such an enormous fascination over Benjamin that  he re\'ad ferred  to  his projected  major  work  on  the  nineteenth  century and  its  capital  simply  as "The   Arcades"  \f4\i\fs22 (Passagenarbeit); \f7\i0\fs20 and these passageways are indeed like a symbol of Paris, because they clearly are inside and outside at the same time and thus represent its true  nature in quintessential form. In Paris a stranger  feels at home because he can inhabit the city  the way he lives in his own four  walls. And  just as one inhabits an apartment,  and  makes it comfortable,  by living in it instead of  just using it  for sleeping, eating, and working, so one inhabits a city  by strolling  through it without  aim or purpose, with one's stay secured by  the count\'ad less cafes which line the streets and past which the life of the city, the flow of pedestrians, moves along. To  this day Paris is the only one among the large cities which can. be comfortably  covered on foot, and more than any other  city  it is dependent  for  its liveli\'ad ness on  people  who  pass by in  the  streets,  so that  the  modern automobile  traffic endangers its very existence not only for  tech\'ad nical reasons. The  wasteland of an American suburb, or the resi-\
\li3020\qj
. dential  districts  of  many  towns,  where  all  of  street  life  takes place on the roadway  and where one can walk on the sidewalks, by now reduced  to footpaths, for  miles on end without  encoun\'ad tering  a  human  being, is the  very  opposite  of  Paris.  What   all other  cities seem to permit only  reluctantly   to the  dregs  of so\'ad ciety-strolling, idling, \f4\i\fs22 fidnerie-Paris \f7\i0\fs20 streets actually invite every\'ad one to do. Thus, ever since the Second Empire  the city  has been the paradise \f4\i of  \f7\i0 all those who  need to  chase after  no livelihood, pursue no career, reach no goal-the paradise, then, of bohemians, and  not  only  of  artists and  writers  but  of  all those  who  have gathered  about  them because they could not be integrated  either politically-being homeless or stateless-or  socially.\
\sl-240\slmult1\li3320\ql
Without considering  this background  of  the city  which  be\'ad\
\fi5\sl240\slmult1\li3000\qj
came  a  decisive  experience  for  the  young   Benjamin  one  can hardly understand why the \f4\i\fs22 fianeur \f7\i0\fs20 became the key figure in his writings. The  extent to which  this strolling  determined  the pace of his thinking was perhaps most clearly revealed in the pecu\'ad liarities of  his gait, which  Max Rychner  described  as "at  once\
\
\fi140533\li3380\ql
\f4\i\fs12 21\
\fi5\li2620\f7\i0\fs20 advancing and tarrying,  a strange mixture of both." \fs14 10  \fs20 It was the walk of a \f4\i\fs22 flaneur, \f7\i0\fs20 and it was so striking  because, like the dandy and the snob, the \f4\i\fs22 flaneur \f7\i0\fs20 had his home in the nineteenth  century, an age of security  in which  children of upper-middle-class fam\'ad ilies were assured of an income  without  having to work,  so that they  had no reason to  hurry.  And  just as the \f5 city  \f7 taught  Ben jamin  \f4\i\fs22 flanerie, \f7\i0\fs20 the  nineteenth  century's  secret  style  of  walking and  thinking,  it  naturally  aroused  in  him a feeling  for  French literature  as well, and this almost irrevocably  estranged him from normal  German  intellectual  life. "In  Germany  I feel quite  iso\'ad lated in my efforts and interests among those of my generation, while in France  there  are certain  forces-the writers  Giraudoux and, especially, Aragon; the surrealist movement-in which I see at work what occupies me too"-so he wrote  to Hofmannsthal  in\
\fi28\qj
1927  \f4\i\fs22 (Briefe \f7\i0\fs20 I, 446), when, having returned  from a trip  to Mos\'ad cow and convinced that literary  projects sailing under  the Com\'ad munist flag were unfeasible, he was setting  out: to consolidate his "Paris position" (\f4\i\fs22 Briefe \f7\i0\fs20 I, 444-45). (Eight years earlier he had mentioned the "incredible feeling of kinship" which Peguy had inspired  in  him:  "No   written   work   has  ever  touched   me  so closely  and  given  me such  a  sense of  communion"   \f4\i\fs22 [Briefe  \f7\i0\fs20 I,\
\fi140533\sl-216\slmult1\li2640117].)  Well,  he did not succeed  in consolidating  anything,  and\
\fi5\sl240\slmult1\li2620success would  hardly  have been possible. Only  in  postwar  Paris have foreigners-and presumably that is what everyone  not born in France is called in Paris to this day-been able to occupy "posi\'ad tions/' On  the other  hand, Benjamin was forced  into  a position which actually did not exist anywheret which, in fact, could not be identified and diagnosed as such until  afterwards.  It  was the position on the "top  of  the mast" from  which  the  tempestuous times could  be surveyed  better  than  from  a safe  harbor,  even though  the distress signals of  the "shipwreck,"  of  this one man who had not learned to swim either with or against the tide, were hardly  noticed-either by  those  who  had  never  exposed  them\'ad selves to  these seas or  by  those  who  were  capable  of  moving even in this element.\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1\li2960\ql
Viewed from the outside, it was the position of the free-lance\
\sl240\slmult1\li2660\qj
writer  who  lives by  his pen;  however,  as only  Max  Rychner\
\
\li3020\ql
\f9\i\fs16 22\
\sl-216\slmult1\li3000\qj
\f7\i0\fs22 seems to have observed, he did so in a ''peculiar way," for "his\
\sl240\slmult1
publications were anything but frequent" and "it was never quite clear . . . to what extent he was able to draw upon other  re\'ad sources." \fs14 11  \fs22 Rychner,s suspicions were  justified in every respect.\
\li2980Not only were "other resources" at his disposal prior to his emi\'ad\
\sl-240\slmult1\li3000gration, but behind the fa de\
\fi5\sl240\slmult1\li2980considerably freer, albeit constantly endangered, life of an \f4\i\fs20 homme de lettres \f7\i0\fs22 whose home was a library that bad been gathered with extreme care but was by no means intended as a working tool; it consisted of treasures whose value, as Benjamin often repeated, was proved by  the fact  that  he had not  read them-a   library, then, which was guaranteed not to be useful or at the service of any  profession. Such an existence was something unknown  in Germany,  and  almost  equally  unknown  was  the  occupation which Benjamin, only because he had to make a living, derived from it: not  the occupation of a literary  historian and scholar with the requisite number of fat tomes to his credit, but that of\
\ql
a critic and essayist who  regarded even the  essay form  as too vulgarly extensive and would have preferred the aphorism if he had not been paid by the line. He was certainly not unaware of the fact  that his professional ambitions were directed at some\'ad thing that simply did not exist in Germany, where, despite Licht\'ad enberg, Lessing, Schlegel, Heine, and Nietzsche, aphorisms have never been appreciated and people have usually thought of crit\'ad icism as something disreputably subversive which might be en\'ad joyed-if  at all-only  in the cultural section of a newspaper. It was no accident that Benjamin chose the  French  language for expressing this ambition: \f4\i\fs20 "Le  but que je m'avais propose \f7\i0 ... \f4\i c'est d'etre considere com:me le premier critique de la litterature allemande. La difficulte c'est que, depuis plus de cinquante ans, Ja critique litteraire en Alle11'11Jgne n'est plus consideree comme un genre serieux. Se faire une situation dans la critique, cela \f7\i0 ... \f4\i veut\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1\li3000\qj
\fs22 dire: \fs20 la \fs22 recreer CO'fl'lme  genre" \f7\i0 ("The  goal I set for myself ... is\
\sl-216\slmult1
to be regarded as the foremost critic 'of  German literature. The\
\sl-240\slmult1
trouble is that for more than fifty years literary criticism in Ger\'ad\
many has not been considered a serious genre. To  create a place\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li3360\ql
\f4\i\fs16 2J\
\sl-240\slmult1\li2640\qj
\f7\i0\fs22 in criticism for oneself means to re-create it as a genre")  \f4\i (Briefe\
\f5\i0 II, \f4\i\fs26 sos).\
\li2920\ql
\f7\i0\fs22 There is no doubt that Benjamin owed this choice of a pro\'ad\
\li2640\qj
fession to early French influences, to the proximity of the great neighbor on the other side of the Rhine which inspired in him\
\fs16 'iO \fs22 intimate a sense of affinity. But it is much more symptomatic\
\fi5\sl216\slmult1\li2620that  even this selection of a profession was actually motivated by  hard times and financial woes. \f5 If \f7 one wants to express the "profession" he had prepared himself for spontaneously, although perhaps not deliberately, in social categories, one has to go back to Wilhelminian Germany in which he grew up and where his first plans for the future  took shape. Then  one could say that Benjamin did not prepare for anything but  the "profession" of a  private collector and  totally  independent scholar, what  was then called \f4\i Privatgelehrter. \f7\i0 Under the circumstances of the time his studies, which he had begun before the First World  War, could have ended only with a university career, but unbaptized Jews were still barred from such a career, as they were from any career \fs20 in \fs22 the civil service. Such Jews were pennitted a \f4\i Habilita\'ad tion \f7\i0 and at most could attain the rank of an unpaid \f4\i Extraordi\'ad narius; \f7\i0 it was a tareer  which presupposed rather than provided an assured\'b7 income. The  doctorate  which Benjamin decided to take only ''out  of consid...:ation for  my familyu \f4\i (Briefe \f7\i0 I, \fs20 116) \fs22 and his subsequent attempt at \f4\i Habilitation \f7\i0 were intended as the basis for his \fs20 family's  \fs22 readiness to place such an income at \fs20 his \fs22 dis\'ad posal.\
\fi294
This sitUation changed abruptly after the war:  the inflation had impoverished, even dispossessed, large numbers of the bour\'ad geoisie, and in the Weima.r Republic a university career was open even to unbaptized Jews. The unhappy story of the \f4\i\fs20 Habilitation \f7\i0\fs22 shows clear1y how  little Benjamin took  these altered  circum\'ad stances into account and how greatly he continued to  be dom\'ad inated by prewar ideas in all financial matters. For from the out\'ad set the \f4\i\fs20 Habilitation \f7\i0\fs22 had only been intended to call his father "to order, by supplying "evidence of public recognition,  ( \f4\i Briefe  \f7\i0 I,\
\fi140533\sl-216\slmult1\li2660\fs20 193)  \fs22 and to make him grant his son, who was in his thirties at\
\sl-240\slmult1\li2640that time, an income that was adequate and, one should add, com-\
\fi5\sl240\slmult1\li2920\fs20 mensurate  with  his social standing. At  no  time, not  even  when he had already  come close to the Communists, did he doubt  that despite  his chronic  conflicts with  his parents  he was entitled  to such  a subvention  and  that  their  demand  that  he "work for  a living" was "unspeakable"  \f4\i\fs22 (Briefe \f7\i0\fs20 I, 291). When  his father  said\
\fi140533\sl-216\slmult1
later that he could not or would not increase the monthly  stipend\
\fi5\sl240\slmult1\li2900he was paying anyway, even if his son achieved the \f4\i\fs22 Habilitation, \f7\i0\fs20 this naturally  removed the basis of Benjamin's entire undertaking. Until his parents' death in 1930, Benjamin was able to solve the problem of his livelihood by moving back into the parental home, living there first with his family  (he  had a wife and a son),  and after  his separation-which came soon  enough-by himself. (He was not divorced  until 1930.)  It is evident  that  this arrangement\
\fi22
caused him a great deal of suffering, but it is just as evident  that in all probability  he never seriously considered  another  solution. It is also striking  that despite his permanent  financial trouble  he managed throughout these years constantly  to enlarge his library. His  one attempt  to  deny  himself this expensive passion-he vis\'ad ited  the great  auction  houses the way  others  frequent  gambling casinos-and his resolution  even to sell something  "in  an  emer\'ad gency" ended with his feeling obliged to "deaden the pain of this readiness"  \f4\i\fs22 (Briefe \f7\i0\fs20 I,  340)   by  making  fresh  purchases;  and  his one demonstrable  att mpt\
\fi11
dence on his family ended with the proposal  that  his father  im\'ad mediately give him "funds enabling me to buy an interest in a secondhand  bookstore"  \f4\i\fs22 (Briefe \f7\i0\fs20 I, 191).  This  is the only  gainful employment  that Benjamin ever considered. Nothing  came of it, of course.\
\fi306
In view of  the realities of the Germany  of  the twenties  and of Benjamin's awareness that he would  never  be able to  make a living with  his pen-"there are places in which  I can earn a min\'ad imum and places in which  I can live on a minimum, but  there is no place where  I can de  both"  \f4\i\fs22 (Briefe \f7\i0\fs20 II, 563)-his whole  atti\'ad\
\fi140533\sl-192\slmult1
tude  may  strike  one  as unpardonably  irresponsible.  Yet  it  was\
\sl-240\slmult1
anything  but a case of irresponsibility. It is reasonable to assume that  it is just as hard for  rich  people grown  poor  to  believe in\
their  poverty  as it  is for  poor  people  turned  rich  to  believe \f5 in\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li3260\ql
\f9\i 25\
\
\li3020\f4\fs18 llluminatiom\
\fi5\li2660\qj
\f7\i0\fs22 their wealth; the former seem carried away by a recklessness of which they are totally unaware, the latter seem possessed by a stinginess which actually is nothing but  the old ingrained fear of what the next day may bring.\
\fi300
Moreover, in his attitude to financial problems Benjamin was by no means an isolated case. \f5\fs24 If \f7\fs22 anything, his outlook was typical of an entire generation of German-Jewish intellectuals, a1though probably no one else fared so badly with it. Its basis was the men\'ad tality of the fathers, successful businessmen who did not think too highly of their own achievements and whose dream it  was that their sons were destined for higher things. It was the secu\'ad larized version of the ancient Jewish belief that those who ''learn"\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1\li2680-the Torah  or the Talmud, that is, God's  Law-were the true elite of the people and should not be bothered with so vulgar an\
\fi11\li2660occupation as making money or working for it. This is not to say that in this generation there were no father-son\'b7 conflicts; on\
\fi140533
the contrary,  the literature of the time is full of them, and if\
\sl240\slmult1
Freud had Jived and carried on his inquiries in a country  and language other  than the German-Jewish milieu which supplied his patients, we might never have heard of an Oedipus corpplex.\fs14 12\
\fs22 But as a rule these conflicts were resolved by the sons' laying claim to being geniuses, or, in the case of the numerous Com\'ad munists from well-to-do homes, to being devoted to the welfare of mankind-in any case, to aspiring to things higher than making money-and  the fathers were more than willing to grant that this was a valid excuse for not making a living.\
were not made or recognized, catastrophe was just around the corner. Benjamin was a case in point: his father never recognized his claims, and their relations were extraordinarily bad. Another such case was Kafka, who-possibly because he really was some\'ad thing like a genius-was quite free of the genius mania of his en\'ad vironment, never claimed to be a genius, and ensured his financial independence by taking an ordinary job at the Prague workmen's compensation  office. (His relations with his father were of course equally bad, but for different reasons.) And still, no sooner had Kafka taken this position than he saw in it a "running start for\
\sl-240\slmult1\li2920suicides," as though  he were obeying an order  that says "You have to earn your grave." \f5\fs12 1B\
\fi294
\f7\fs22 For  Benjamin, at any rate, a monthly  stipend remained the only possible form of income, and in order  to receive one after\
\fi5\sl240\slmult1
his parents' death he was ready, or thought  he was, to do many things: to study Hebrew for three hundred marks a month if the Zionists thought it would do them some good, or to think dia\'ad lectically, with  all the  mediating trimmings, for  one  thousand French francs if there was no other way of doing business with the Marxists. The fact that despite being down and out he later did neither is worthy  of admiration, and  so is the infinite pa\'ad tience with which Scholem, who had worked  very hard to get Benjamin a stipend for the study of Hebrew from the university in Jerusalem, allowed himself to be put  off for  years. No  one, of course, was prepared to subsidize him in the only "position" for which he was born, that of an \f4\i homme de lettres, \f7\i0 a position of whose unique prospects neither the Zionists nor the Marxists were, or could have been, aware.\
\fi311\sl216\slmult1\li2900Today  the \f4\i hormne de lettres \f7\i0 strikes us as a rather  hannless, marginal figure, as though he were actually to be equated with the figure of the \f4\i Privatgelehrter \f7\i0 that has always had a touch of the comic. Benjamin, who felt so close to French that  the lan\'ad guage became for  him a ''sort of alibi" \f4\i (Briefe \f7\i0 II, \f4\i 505) \f7\i0 for  his existence, probably knew about the \f4\i honrme de lettres's \f7\i0 origins in prerevolutionary France as well as about his extraordinary career in the French  Revolution. In contrast  to  the later writers  and literati, the \f4\i\fs24 "ecrivains \fs22 et \fs24 litterateurs" \f7\i0\fs22 as even Larousse defines the \f4\i b0111!11les de lettres, \f7\i0 these men, though they did live in the world of the written and printed word and were, above all, surrounded by  books, were neither obliged nor willing to  write  and read professionally, in order to earn a living. Unlike the class of the intellectuals, who offer their services either to the state as experts, specialists, and officials, or to society for  diversion and instruc\'ad tion, the  \f4\i horn:mes de lettres  \f7\i0 always strove  to  keep aloof  from both the state and society. Their material existence was based on income without work, and their intellectual attitude rested upon their resolute refusal to be integrated politically or socially. On\
\fi34\sl240\slmult1\li2620\fs20 the basis of this dual independence they could afford that attitude of superior disdain which gave rise to La Rochefoucauld's  con\'ad temptuous  insights into human behavior, the worldly  wisdom of Montaigne, the aphoristic trenchancy of Pascars thought, the boldness and  open-mindedness of  Montesquieu,s political  reflec\'ad tions. It  cannot  be  my  task  here  to  discuss the  circumstances which  eventually  turned  the \f4\i hommes de lettres \f7\i0 into  revolution\'ad aric;:s in the eighteenth  century  nor  the way in which  their  suc\'ad cessors in  the  nineteenth  and  twentieth  centuries  split  into  the class of the ''cultured" on the one hand and  of the  professional revolutionaries on the other. I mention this historical background only  because in Benjamin the  element  of  culture  combined  in such a unique way with the element of the revolutionary  and rebellious. It was as though  shortly  before  its disappearance  the figure of the \f4\i homme de lettres \f7\i0 was destined to show itself once more  in  the  fullness  of  its  possibilities, although-or, possibly, because-it had lost its material basis in such a catastrophic  way, so that the purely intellectual passion which  makes this figure so lovable might  unfold  in all its most telling and hnpressive possi\'ad bilities.\
\fi306
There  certainly  was no dearth of reasons to rebel against his origins, the  milieu of  German-Jewish  society  in  Imperial  Ger\'ad many, in which Benjamin grew up, nor was there any lack of justification for  taking a stand against the Weimar  Republic,  in which  he refused to take up a profession. In \f4\i A Berlin Childhood around \fs16 1900 \f7\i0\fs20 Benjamin describes the house from which he came as a ''mausoleum long intended for me" (\f4\i Schriften  \f7\i0 I, 643). Charac\'ad teristically  enough, his father  was an art  dealer and antiquarian; the  family  was  a  wealthy  and  run-of-the-mill   assimilated one; one of  his grandparents  was Orthodox,  the other  belonged  to a Reform  congregation. "In  my childhood I was a prisoner  of the old and the  new  West.  In  those days  my  clan inhabited  these two  districts  with an attitude  mingled of stubbornness  and self \'b7 confidence, turning  them into  a ghetto  which  it regarded  as its fief" \f4\i (Schriften \f7\i0 I, 643). The  stubbornness was toward  their Jew\'ad ishness; it was only stubbornness that made them cling to it. The self-confidence  was inspired by their  position in the  non-Jewish\
\fi11\li2960environment  in  which  they  had, after  all, achieved quite  a bit. just  how much  was shown on days when  guests were expected. On such occasions the inside of the sideboard, which  seemed to be the center  of the house and thus "with  good reason resembled the temple mountains/' was opened, and now it was possible "to show  off  treasures  such  as idols like  to  be surrounded   with." Then  "the  house's hoard of silver" appeared, and what  was dis\'ad played  "was  there  not  tenfold,  but  twentyfold  or  thirtyfold. And when \f5 I \f7 looked at these long, long rows of mocha spoons or knife rests, fruit  knives or oyster forks, the enjoyment  of this profusion struggled  with the fear that those who were  being ex\'ad pected might all look alike, just as our cutlery did"  (\f4\i\fs22 Schriften  \f7\i0\fs24 I,\
\fi140533\sl-216\slmult1
\fs20 632).  Even the child  knew that something  was radically  wrong,\
\fi5\sl240\slmult1\ql
and not  only  because there  were  poor  people  ("The poor-for the rich children  of my age they existed only as beggars. And it was a great advance in my understanding  when for  the first time poverty  dawned  on me in the ignominy  of  poorly  paid  work" \f4\i\fs22 [Schriften \f7\i0\fs20 I, 632)) but because "stubbornness" within  and "self\'ad confidence" without  were producing an atmosphere of insecurity  \'b7 and self-consciousness which truly  was anything  but suitable for the raising of children. This  was true  not  only  of Benjamin  or Berlin West \bullet  or  Germany.  With   what  passion did  Kafka  try\
\fi140533\qj
to  persuade his sister to  put  her ten-year-old  son in a boarding school, so as to save him from "the special mentality  which  is particularly  virulent among wealthy Prague Jews and which can\'ad not  be kept away  from  children ..\bullet  this petty,  dirty,  sly men\'ad tality." \fs12 14\
\li3260\ql
\fs20 What   was involved,  then, was what  had since  the \f5\fs14 I \f7\fs20 87os or\
\fi22\li2940\qc
188os been called the  Jewish question  and  existed in  that  form only  in  the  German-speaking  Central  Europe  of  those  decades. Today this question  has been washed away,  as \fs22 it \fs20 were,  by  the catastrophe  of European  Jewry  and is justly forgotten, although one still encounters  it  occasionally in the  language  of  the  older generation o\bullet  German  Zionists whose thinking  habits derive from the first decades of this century. Besides, it  never  was anything\
\
\fi140533\li3200\ql
\fs18 \bullet  A fashionable residential area of Berlin.\
\fi5\li2780\qj
\fs20 but  the concern  of the Jewish intelligentsia  and had  no signifi\'ad cance for the majority of Central European Jewry. For the in\'ad tellectuals, however, it  was of great  importance,  for  their  own Jewis ness,\
\fi22\li2760hold, determined  their social life to an extraordinary  degree and therefore  presented itself to them as a moral question of the first order. In this moral form the Jewish question marked, in Kafka's words, "the terrible inner condition of these generations." \fs12 15 \fs20 No matter  how  insignificant this problem  may  appear  to  us in  the face  of  what  actually  happened  later,  we  cannot  disregard  it here, for neither Benjamin nor  Kafka nor Karl Kraus can be un\'ad derstood without it. For simplicity's sake I shall state the problem exactly  as it  was stated  and  endlessly  discussed then-namely, in an article entitled "German-Jewish  Mt. Parnassus', ("Deutsch\'ad jiidischer Parnass") which created a great stir when Moritz Gold\'ad stein published it in \fs16 I 912 \fs20 in the distinguished  journal \f4\i Der Kunst\'ad wart.\
\fi140533\sl-264\slmult1\li3060\ql
\f7\i0 According  to  Goldstein,  the  problem  as \f4\i\fs24 it \f7\i0\fs20 appeared  to  the\
\sl-216\slmult1\li2540\qc
' Jewish intelligentsia had a dual aspect, the  non-Jewish  environ\'ad\
\fi11\sl240\slmult1\li2740\ql
ment and assimilated Jewish society, and in his view the problem was insoluble. With  respect to the non-Jewish  environment"We Jews  administer the intellectual  property  of a people which  de\'ad nies us the right  and the ability  to do so." And  further: "It  is easy  to  show  the  absurdity  of  our  adversaries'  arguments  and prove that their enmity is unfounded. What  would  be gained by this? That  their hatred is \f4\i\fs22 genuine. \f7\i0\fs20 When  all calumnies have been\
\fi140533\sl-216\slmult1\qj
refuted,  all distortions  rectified, all false judgments about  us re\
\fi11\sl240\slmult1
jeered, antipathy  will  remain as something  irrefutable.  Anyone who  does not realize this is beyond  help." lt was the failure \'b7tO realize this that  was felt  to be unbearable about  Jewish society, whose representatives,  on the one hand, wished  to remain Jews and, on the other, did not want to acknowledge  their Jewjshness: "We  shall openly  drum  the problem that  they  are shirking into\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1
them. We  shall force  them to own up to  their  \fs24 J\fs20 ewishness or to\
have themselves baptized." But even if this was successful, even\
if the mendacity  of this milieu could  be exposed and  escaped\'ad\
what would be gained \f5 by \f7 it? A "leap into modern  Hebrew  liter-\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li3100\ql
\f4\i JO\
\fi11\li3020\qj
\f7\i0 ature, was impossible for  the current  generation.  Hence:  "Our relationship  to  Germany  is one  of  unrequited  love. Let  us  be manly enough at last to tear the beloved out  of our hearts. . . . I have stated  what  we \f4\i\fs24 must \f7\i0\fs20 want  to do; I have also stated  why\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1
we \f4\i cannot \f7\i0 want  it. My  intention  was to  point  up  the  problem.\
\sl-216\slmult1
It is not my fault that I know of no solution."  (For  himself, Herr\
\fi5\sl240\slmult1\li3000Goldstein  solved  the  problem  six years  later  when  he  became cultural  editor  of  the  \f4\i Vossische Zeitung. \f7\i0 And  what  else could he have done?)\
\fi311
One  could  dispose  of  Moritz  Goldstein   by  saying  that  he simply  reproduced  what  Benjamin in  another  context  called  "a major part of the \f4\i wlgar \f7\i0 anti-Semitic as well as the Zionist ideol\'ad ogy"  \f4\i\fs22 (Briefe \f7\i0\fs20 I, 152-53 ), if one did  not  encounter  in  Kafka,  on a far  more  serious  level, a similar formulation   of  the  problem and  the same confession  of  its insolubility.  In  a letter  to  Max\
\fi28\li2960Brod about Gemian-Jewish writers  he said that  the Jewish ques\'ad tion or "the  despair over  it was their  inspiration-an  inspiration as respectable as any other  but fraught, upon closer examination, with distressing peculiarities. For one thing, what their despair discharged itself in could  not be German  literature  which  on the surface it appeared  to be," because the problem was not  really a German  one. Thus  they  lived "among  three impossibilities . . . : the impossibility of not writing" as they could get rid of their inspiration only by writing; "the impossibility of writing in Ger\'ad man,-Kafka considered  their  use  of  the  German  language  as the  uovert or  covert,  or  possibly self-tormenting usurpation  of an alien property, which  has not been acquired  but stolen,  (rela\'ad tively)  quickly  picked up, and which remains someone else's pos\'ad session even \f5 if \f7 not a single linguistic mistake can be pointed out"; and  finally, "the  impossibility  of  writing  differently,"  since  no other  language  was  available. "One  could  almost add  a fourth impossibility," says Kafka in conclusion, "the impossibility of writing,  for  this despair was not  something  that  could  be miti\'ad gated through  writing"-as is normal for  poets, to whom  a god has givn\
\fi140533\sl-264\slmult1
become here "an enemy of life \f4\i and \f7\i0 of writing;  writing  was here\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li3340\ql
\f4\i\fs16 31\
\
\sl-240\slmult1\li2600\qj
\f7\i0\fs20 only a moratorium,  as it is for  someone who writes  his last will and testament  just before  he hangs himself." to\
\fi300\sl240\slmult1
Nothing  could be easier than to. demonstrate  that Kafka  was wrong  and that  his own work,  which speaks the purest German prose of the century, is the best refutation  of his views. But such a demonstration, .apart from  being in  bad  taste, \f5\fs22 is \f7\fs20 all the  more superfluous as Kafka himself was so \fs22 very \fs20 much aware of it-"If I indiscriminately  write  down a sentence," he once noted in  his Diaries, "it  already is perfect"  \fs12 17\fs20 -just as he was the only  one to\
\fi5
know   that   \f4\i "Mauscheln"  \f7\i0 (speaking   a   Yiddishized   German), though  despised by  all German-speaking  people, Jews  or  non\'ad Jews, did have a legitimate place in the German  language, being nothing else but one of the numerous German dialects. And since he rightly thought that "within  the German language, only the dialects and, besides them, the  most personal High  German  are really alive," it  naturally  was no less legitimate  to change  from \f4\i Mauscheln, \f7\i0 or  from  Yiddish, to  High  German  than  it  was  to change from Low German or the Alemannic dialect. \f5 If \f7 one reads Kafka's remarks about  the Jewish troupe  of actors which so fas\'ad cinated  him, it becomes clear that  what  attracted  him were  less the  specifically Jewish  elements  than  the  liveliness of  language and gesture.\
\fi289\li2620\ql
To  be sure, we have some difficulty today  in  understanding these problems or taking them seriously, especially since it is so tempting  to misinterpret  and dismiss them as mere reaction to an anti-Semitic milieu and  thus as an expression of self-hatred.  But nothing could be more misleading when dealing with men of the human stature  and  intellectual  rank  of  Kafka,  Kraus,  and  Ben\'ad jamin. What  gave their  criticism its  bitter  sharpness was never anti-Semitism as suchbut the reaction to it of the Jewish middle class, with which the intellectuals by no means identified. There, too, it was not a matter  of the frequently  undignified apologetic attitude of official Jewry,  with which the intellectuals had hardly any  contact,  but  of  the  lying  denial of  the  very  existence  of widespread  anti-Semitism;  of  the  isolation  from   reality  staged with all the devices of self-deceptioby  the Jewish  bourgeoisie, an isolation  which  for  Kafka,  and  not  only  for  him, included\
\
\fi140533\li3000\f4\i J2\
\
\fi5\li2920\qj
\f7\i0 the  often  hostile and always haughty  separation  from  the  Jew\'ad ish people, the so-called \f4\i\fs24 Ostjuden \f7\i0\fs20 (Jews  from  Eastern  Europe) who were, though one knew better, blamed by them for anti\'ad Semitism. The  decisive factor  in all this was the loss of reality, aided and abetted  by the wealth  of  these classes. "Among  poor people," wrote Kafka, uthe world, the bustle of work, so to speak, irresistibly  enters  the  huts  . . . and  does  not  allow  the  musty, polluted, child-consuming  air of a nicely  furnished  family  room\
to be generated." \fs14 18  \fs20 They  fought  against Jewish society  because it would  not permit them to live in the world  as it happened  to be, without  illusions-thus, for  example, to  be prepared  for  the murder of Walther  Rathenau  (in 1911):  to Kafka it was ''incom\'ad prehensible that they should have let him live as long as that." \fs12 19\
\li2940\ql
\fs20 What  finally determined  the  acuteness of  the  problem  was the fact  that  it did not  merely, or even primarily,  manifest itself as a  break  between  the  generations  from  which  one  could  have escaped by leaving home and family. To  only very few German\'ad Jewish  writers  did  the  problem  present  itself  in  this way,  and these few  were surrounded  by all those others  who  are already forgotten but  from  whom  they  are clearly  distinguishable only today  when  posterity  has settled  the  question  of  who  is  who. ("Their political function," wrote  Benjamin, "is to establish not parties but cliques, their literary function  to produce  not schools but  fashions, and their  economic function  to set into  the  world not producers  but agents. Agents or smarties who  know  how  to spend their poverty  as if it were riches and who make whoopee out  of  their  yawning  vacuity.  One  could  not  establish oneself more comfortably  in an uncomfortable  situation." \fs12 20)  \fs20 Kafka, who exemplified this situation  in the above-mentioned  letter  by  "lin\'ad guistic  impossibilities," adding  that  they  could  "also  be  called something  quite  different,"  poigts  to  a "linguistic  middle class" between,  as it were, proletarian dialect and high-class prose; it is "nothing  but ashes which can be given a semblance of life only by overeager Jewish hands rummaging through  them.'' One need hardly  add  that  the  overwhelming  majority  of Jewish  intellec tuals belonged to  this "middle  class"; according  to  Kafka,  they constituted  "the  hell of  German-Jewish letters,"  in  which  Karl\
\
\fi140533\li3300\f4\i .33\
\
\li3040\fs18 ll/umint tions\
\fi11\li2660\qj
\f7\i0\fs20 Kraus held sway as "the  great overseer and  taskmaster" without noticing how much "he  himself belongs in this hell among those to  be chastised." \fs12 21   \fs20 That  these things  may  be seen quite  differ\'ad ently from a non-jewish  perspective becomes apparent when one reads in  one of  Benjamin's essays what  Brecht  said about  Karl Kraus: "When the age died by its own hand, he was that hand" \f4\i (Schriften \f5\i0 II, \f7 174).\
\fi140533\sl-216\slmult1\li2960\ql
For  the  Jews  of  that  generation  (Kafka  and  Moritz  Gold\'ad\
\fi11\sl240\slmult1\li2640\qj
stein were but ten years older than Benjamin) the available forms of rebellion were Zionism and Communism, and it is noteworthy that  their  fathers  often  condemned  the  Zionist  rebellion  more bitterly  than  the  Communist. Both were  escape routes  from  il\'ad lusion into reality, from mendacity and self-deception  to an hon\'ad est existence. But this is only how it appears in retrospect.  At the time when Benjamin tried, first, a half--hearted Zionism and then a basically no less half-hearted  Communism,  the  two  ideologies faced  each  other  with  the  greatest  hostility:   the  Communists were defaming Zionists as Jewish Fascists \f4\i\fs12 2Z \f7\i0\fs20 and the Zionists were calling  the  young  Jewish  Communists "red  assimilationists!' In\
\ql
a remarkable. and  probably  unique  manner  Benjamin kept  both routes open for himself for years; he persisted in considering  the road  to Palestine long  after  he had  become a Marxist, without allowing himself to \f4\i be \f7\i0 swayed in the least by the opinions of his Marxist-oriented friends, particularly the Jews among them. This shows clearly  how little the ."positive" aspect of either ideology interested  him, and that  what  mattered  to  him in both  instances was the "negative''  factor  of  criticism  of  existing conditions. a way out of bourgeois illusions and untruthfulness,  a position out\'ad side the literary  as well as the academic establishment. He  was quite  young  when  he  adopted  this  radically  critical  attitude, probably  without  suspecting  to what  isolation and loneliness it would eventually lead him. Thus we read, for example, in a letter written  in  1918,  that  Walther   Rathenau,  claiming  to  represent Germany   in  foreign  affairs, and  Rudolf  Borchardt,   making  a similar claim with respect to German spiritual affairs, had in com\'ad mon  the  \f4\i "will  \f7\i0 to  lie,"  "the   objective  mendacity"    \f4\i (Briefe   \f7\i0 I.\
\fi140533\sl-216\slmult1\li2660\qj
189 ff). Neither  wanted to "serve" a cause through  his works-in\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li3000\ql
\f4\i\fs18 34\
\li2940\qj
\f7\i0\fs20 Borchardt's  case, the "spiritual and linguistic resources" of the people;\'b7 in Rathenau's, the nation-but both used their works  and talents as "sovereign  means in the service  of an absolute will  to power."  In addition, there  were the litterateurs  who placed their gifts  in the service of  a career  and  social status:  "To  be  a lit\'ad terateur  is to live under the sign of mere intellect,  just as prosti\'ad tution  is to live under  the sign of mere sex" \f4\i\fs22 (Scbriften \f7\i0\fs20 II, 179). Just  as a prostitute  betrays  sexual love, a litterateur  betrays  the mind, and it was this betrayal of the mind which  the best among the  Jews  could  not  forgive  their  colleagues  in  literary  life.  In the same vein Benjamin wrote five years later-one year after  the assassination of Rathenau-to a close German  friend:  ".  . . Jews today ruin even the best German cause which they publicly champion, because their  public statement  is necessarily venal (in a  deeper  sense)  and  cannot  adduce  proof  of  its  authenticity" \f4\i\fs22 (Briefe \f7\i0\fs20 I, 310).  He went  on to say that  only  the private, almost "secret  relationships  between  Gennans and  Jews"  were  legiti\'ad mate,  while  "everything  about   German-Jewish  relations  that works  in  public  today  causes harm."  There  was  much  truth  in these words.  Written from  the  perspective  of  the  jewish  ques\'ad tion at that time, they supply  evidence  of the darkness of a pe\'ad riod  in  which  one could  rightly  say,  "The light  of  the  public darkens  everything" (Heidegger).\
\fi306\li2960As early  as 1913 Benjamin weighed  the  position  of  Zionism "as  a  possibility  and  thus  perhaps  a  necessary  commitment" \f4\i\fs22 (Briefe \f7\i0\fs20 I, 44) in t!le sense of this dual rebellion against the paren\'ad tal  home  and  German-Jewish   literary  life. Two   years later  he met Gerhard  Scholem; encountering in him for the first and only rime "Judaism  in living form";  soon afterwards  came the  begin\'ad ning of that curious, endless consideration,  extending  over a pe\'ad riod  of almost twenty  years, of emigration  to Palestine. "Under certain, by no means impossible conditions  I am ready if not determined  [to  go to Palestine].  Here  in Austria  the Jews  (the decent  ones, those who are not making  money)  talk of nothing else." So he wrote  in 1919 \f4\i\fs22 (Briefe \f7\i0\fs20 I, 1:n), but  at the same time\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1
he regarded  such a plan as an ''act  of violence,  ( \f4\i\fs22 Briefe \f7\i0\fs20 I, 108)\
\sl-216\slmult1
unfeasible unless it  turned  out  to  be necessary. Whenever  such\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li3320\ql
\f9\i 35\
\li2640\qj
\f7\i0 financial or political necessity arose, he reconsidered  the  project and did not go. It is hard to say whether he was still serious about it  after  the  separation  from  his wife,  who  had  come  from  a Zionist milieu. But it is certain that even during his Paris exile he announced that he might go "to Jerusalem in Octobe;r or No\'ad vember, after a more or less definitive conclusion of my studies" \f4\i\fs22 (Briefe \f7\i0\fs20 II, 655). What  strikes one as indecison in the  letters, as\
\sl-216\slmult1
though  he  were  vacillating  between  Zionism and  Marxism,  in\
\fi11\sl240\slmult1
truth  was probably  due  to  the  bitter  insight  that  all solutions were  not only objectively false and inappropriate  to reality,  but would lead him personally to a false salvation, no matter whether that salvation was labeled Moscow or Jerusalem. He felt  that  he would  deprive  himself of  the  positive cognitive  chances  of  his own  position-"on the  top  of a mast that  is alrea-dy crumbling" or "dead  in  his own  lifetime and the  real survivor"  among  the ruins. He had settled down in the desperate conditions which corresponded to reality; there he wanted to remain in order to "denature" his own writings  "like methylated  spirits . \bullet  . at  the risk  of  making  them  unfit  for  consumption,,  by  anyone  then alive but  with  the  chance  of  being preserved  all the  more  re\'ad liably for an unknown  future.\
\fi306
For  the insolubility  of  the Jewish  question  for  that  genera\'ad tion by no means consisted only in their speaking and writing German  or in the fact  that  their "production plant" was located in Europe-in Benjamin's case, in Berlin West  or \f5 in \f7 Paris, some\'ad thing about which he did "not have the slightest illusionsu \f4\i\fs22 (Briefe \f7\i0\fs20 II, 531). What  was decisive was that  these men did not  wish to "return" either  to the ranks of the Jewish people or to Judaism, and could not desire to do so-not because they believed in "progress)' and an automatic disappearance of anti-Semitism or because they were too "assimilated" and too alienated from  their Jewish heritage, but because all traditions and cultures as well as all Hbelonging" had become equally questionable  to  them. This is what they felt was wrong with the ureturn" to the Jewish fold as proposed by the Zionists; they could all have said what  Kafka once said about  being a member of the Jewish people: "... My people, provided  that  I  have one." \f5\fs12 23\
\fi294\li2960\f7\fs20 No  doubt,  the Jewish  question was of great  importance  for \f5\fs22 this \f7\fs20 generation  of Jewish  writers  and  explains much  of the pera sonal despair so prominent  in nearly everything  they  wrote. But the most clear-sighted among them were led by their personal conflicts  to  a  much  more  general  and  more  radical  problem, namely, to questioning the relevance of the Western  tradition  as a whole. Not  just Marxism as a doctrine  but the Communist revolutionary movement exerted a powerful  attraction  on them because it implied more than a criticism of existing social and political conditions  and took into  account  the  totality  of  politi\'ad cal and spiritual traditions. For Benjamin, at any  rate, this ques\'ad tion of the  past and  of  tradition  as such  was decisive, and  pre\'ad cisely in the sense in which Scholem, warning  his friend  against the dangers to his thinking  inherent  in Marxism, posed it, albeit without  being aware of the problem. Benjamin, he wrote, was running  the risk of forfeiting  the chance of becoming "the legiti\'ad mate continuer  of the most fruitful  and  most genuine  traditions of a Hamann and a Humboldt" \f4\i\fs22 (Briefe \f7\i0\fs20 II, 526). What  he did not understand was that such a return to and continuation  of the past was the  very  thing  which  "the  morality  of  [his]  insights," to which Scholem appealed, was bound  to rule  out for  Benjamin.\fs12 24\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1\li3280\ql
\fs20 It seems tempting  to believe, and would indeed be a comfort\'ad\
\sl240\slmult1\li2980\qj
ing  thought,  that  those  few  who  ventured   out  onto  the  most exposed positions of the time and paid the full price of isolation at  least thought  of  themselves as the  precursors  of  a new  age. That  certainly  was not the case. In his essay on Karl Kraus, Ben\'ad jamin brought  up this question: Does Kraus stand "at  the thresh\'ad old of a new age?" "Alas, \f5\fs22 by \f7\fs20 no means. He stands at the threshold of the Last Judgment" \f4\i\fs22 (Schriften \f7\i0\fs20 II, 174). And at this threshold\
\sl-216\slmult1
there  really stood all those who later  became the masters of the\
\fi5\sl240\slmult1
"new age"; they looked upon the dawn of a new age basically as a decline and viewed history  along with  the traditions which led up to this decline as a field of ruins.2ti No  one has expressed this more clearly than Benjamin in his "Theses  on the Philosophy  of History," and  nowhere  has he said \fs22 it  \fs20 more  uneq\\livocally  than in a letter  from  Paris dated  1935: "Actually, I  hardly  feel con\'ad strained to try to make head or tail of this condition  of the world.\
\
\fi140533\li3360\ql
\f4\i 31\
\fi5\li2620\qj
\f7\i0 On  this planet a great  number  of  civilizations have perished in blood  and horror.  Naturally,  one must wish for  the  planet that one day it will experience a civilization that has abandoned blood and horror; in fact, I am ... inclined to assume that our planet is waiting for this. But it is terribly  doubtful  whether  \f4\i\fs24 we \f7\i0\fs20 can bring such a present to its hundred- or four-hundred-millionth birthday\
party.  And if we don't,  the planet will :finally punish us, its un\'ad thoughtful  well-wishers, by . presenting  us with  the  Last Judg\'ad ment"* \f4\i (Briefe \f7\i0 II, 698).\
\fi140533\sl-216\slmult1\li2920\ql
Well, in this respect the last thirty  years have hardly brought\
\sl240\slmult1\li2620\qj
much that could be called new.\
\
\
\li2920\ql
\fs16 III.    THE  PEARL  DlVER\
\
\sl-216\slmult1\li3160\f4\i\fs20 Full fathom five thy father lies, Of his bones are coral made,\
Those are pearls that were his eyes. Nothing  of him that doth  fade\
\sl240\slmult1\li2980But doth suffer a sea-change\
Into something rich and strange.\
\li4520\qc
\f7\i0\fs12 -THE TEMPEST, I, 2\
\
\fi300\li2620\qj
\fs20 Insofar as the past has been transmitted. as tradition, \fs22 it \fs20 pos\'ad sesses authority; insofar  as authority   presents  itself  historically, it becomes tradition. Walter Benjamin knew that the break in tradition and the loss of authority  which occurred  in his lifetime were irreparable, and he concluded  that he had to discover new ways of dealing with the past. In this he became a master when he discovered that  the  transmissibility  of  the  past had been re\'ad placed  by  its citability  and  that  in  place of its  authority  there had arisen a strange power to settle down,  piecemeal, in the pres\'ad ent and to deprive it of "peace  of mind,"  the mindless peace of\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1
complacency. "Quotations in \fs24 my \fs20 works  are like robbers  by the\
roadside who  make an armed attack  and  relieve an idler  of  his\
\fi5
convictions"  \f4\i (Schriften \f7\i0 I,  571). This  discovery  of  the  modem function  of quotations, according  to Benjamin, who  exemplified\
\
\fi140533\sl-216\slmult1\li2880\ql
\fs18 \bullet  \f4\i Weltgericht \f7\i0 (Last Judgment)   \fs20 plays \fs18 on  the  dual  \fs16 meaning  \fs18 of  \f4\i Gericht\
\sl-168\slmult1\li2660\qj
\f7\i0 (judgment;  dish).  (Translator\bullet s note.)\
\sl240\slmult1\li2940\fs20 it  by Karl Kraus, was hom  out  of despair-not the despair of a past that  refuses "to  throw  its light  on  the future" and lets the human mind "wander  in darkness" as in Tocqueville,  but out of the  despair  of  the  present  and  the  desire  to  destroy  it;  hence their power is "not  the strength  to preserve but to cleanse, to tear out of context, to destroy"  \f4\i\fs22 (Scbriften \f7\i0\fs20 II,  \f5\fs14 192 ). \f7\fs20 Still, the discov\'ad erers  and  lovers  of  this  destructive  power  originally  were  in\'ad spired  by  an  entirely  different  intention,  the  intention  to  pre\'ad serve; and  only  because  they  did  not  let  themselves  be fooled by the professional "preservers"  all around  them did they finally discover that  the destructive  power  of quotations  was "the  only one which still contains the hope that something  from this period will survive-for no other reason than that it was torn  out of it." In this form of "thought fragments," quotations  have the double task of interrupting the flow of the presentation  with ' transcen\'ad dent  force"  \f4\i\fs22 (Schriften \f7\i0\fs20 I, 142-43)  and  at  the same time of con\'ad\
\sl-216\slmult1
centrating within  themselves that which  is presented. \f5 As \f7 to their\
\sl240\slmult1
weight  in  Benjamin's writings,  quotations  are  comparable  only to  the  very  dissimilar Biblical citations  which  so  often  replace the immanent consistency of argumentation in medieval treatises.\
\sl-240\slmult1\li3240\ql
I have already mentioned  that collecting  was Benjamin,s cen\'ad\
\sl240\slmult1\li2940\qj
tral  passion. It  started  early  with  what   he  himself  called  his\
\fi5
''bibliomania" but soon extended into something far more char\'ad acteristic, not so much of the person as of his work:  the collect\'ad ing  of  quotations.  (Not that  he ever  stopped  colkcting  books. Shonly before  the  fall  of  France  he, seriously  considered  ex\'ad changing  his edition  of  the  Collected  Works   of  Kafka, which had recently  appeared in five volumes, for a few first editions of Kafka's   early   writings-an  undertaking   which   naturally   was bound  to  remain  incomprehensible  to  any  nonbibliophile.)  The "inner   need  to  own  a  library"   \f4\i\fs22 (Briefe \f7\i0\fs20 I,  193)  asserted  itself\
\fi140533\sl-216\slmult1
around  1916, at the time when Benjamin turned  in \fs22 his \fs20 studies to\
\sl-240\slmult1
Romanticism as the "last movement that  once more saved tradi\'ad\
\fi5\sl240\slmult1
tion"  \f4\i\fs22 (Briefe \f7\i0\fs20 I, q8). That  a certain  destructive  force was active even in this  passion for  the  past, so characteristic of  heirs and late-comers,  Benjamin  did not \'b7discover  until  much  later,  when he had already lost his faith in tradition  and in the indestructibil-\
\
\fi140533\li3320\ql
\f4\i\fs16 3!\}\
\
\li3000\fs20 Illuminatiom\
\fi5\li2620\qj
\f7\i0\fs22 ity  of the world.  (This  will be discussed presently.)  In  those days, encouraged by Scholem, he still believed that his own es\'ad trangement from  tradition was probably  due to  his Jewishness a.nd that there might be a way back for him as there was for his friend, who was preparing to emigrate to Jerusalem. (As early as \fs16 1920, \fs22 when he was not yet seriously beset by financial wor\'ad ries, he thought of learning Hebrew.)  He never went as far on this road as did Kafka, who after  all his efforts stated bluntly that he had no use for anything Jewish except the Hasidic tales which Buber had just prepared for  modern usage-"into  every\'ad thing else I just drift, and another current of air carries me away again.'' \fs14 26   \fs22 Was  he, then, despite all doubts, to  go  back to  the German or European past and help with the tradition of its lit\'ad erature?\
\fi300\sl216\slmult1\ql
Presumably this is the form in which the problem presented itself to him in the early twenties, before he turned to Marxism. That is when he chose the German Baroque Age as a subject for his \f4\i\fs24 Habilitation \f7\i0\fs22 thesis, a choice that is very characteristic of the ambiguity of this entire, still unresolved cluster of problems. For in the German literary and poetic tradition the Baroque has, with the exception of the great church  chorales of  the .time, never really been alive. Goethe rightly said that when he was eighteen years  old,  German  literature  was  no  older.  And  Benjamin's choice, baroque in a double sense, has an exact counterpart  in Scholem's strange decision to  approach Judaism via the Cabala, that is, that part of Hebrew literature which is untransmitted and untransmissible in tenns of Jewish tradition, in which it has al\'ad ways had the odor of something downright  disreputable. Noth\'ad ing showed more clearly-so  one is inclined to say today-that there was no such thing as a "return, either to the German  or the European or the Jewish tradition than  the choice of  these fields of study. It was an implicit admission that the past spoke directly  only through  things that had not  been handed down, whose seeming closeness to the present was thus due precisely to their exotic character, which ruled out  all claims to a binding authority. Obligative truths were replaced by what was in some sense significant or interesting, and this of course meant-as  no\
\
\fi140533\sl240\slmult1\li2980\qj
\fs20 one knew  better  than  Benjamin-that the  "consistence  o\'a3 truth\
\fi11
... has been  lost" \f4\i (Briefe \f7\i0 II,  763).  Outstanding   among  the properties  that  formed  this "consistence  of  truth" was, at  least for  Benjamin,  whose  early  philosophical  interest  was  theolog\'ad ically inspired, that truth  concerned a secret  and that  the revela\'ad tion of this secret had authority. Truth, so Benjamin said shortly before he became fully aware of the irreparable break in tradition and the loss of authority, is not "an unveiling which destroys the secret, but the revelation which does it justice'' \f4\i (Schriften \f7\i0 I, 146). Once  this truth  had come into  the  human  world  at the  appro\'ad priate moment in history-be it as the Greek  \f4\i a-letheia, \f7\i0 visually perceptible  to the eyes of the mind and comprehended  by us as "un-concealment" \f4\i ("Unverhorgenheit"-Heidegger), \f7\i0 or as the acoustically perceptible word of God as we know \fs22 it \fs20 from the European   religions  of  revelation-it was  this  "consistence'' pe\'ad\
\fi140533\qc
culiar to it which made it tangible, as it were, so that it could be handed  down  by  tradition. Tradition  transforms  truth  into  wis\'ad dom, and  wisdom  is the  consistence  of  transmissible  truth.  In other  words, even \fs24 if \fs20 truth  should appear  in our  world, it could not lead to wisdom, because it would  no longer  have the charac\'ad teristics which  it could  acquire only  through  universal  recogni\'ad tion of its validity. Benjamin discusses these matters in connection with  Kafka  and says that  of course t'Kafka was far  from  being the first  to  face  this situation. Many  had accommodated  them\'ad selves to it, adhering  to truth  or whatever  they regarded  as truth at any given time and, with a more or less heavy heart, forgoing its transmissibility. Kafka's real genius was that he tried something entirely  new:  he sacrificed truth  for  the sake of clinging  to the transmissibility"  \f4\i (Briefe \f7\i0 II, 763). He  did so by  making  decisive changes in  traditional  parables or  inventing  new  ones in  tradi\'b7 tiona!style;  \fs12 27  \fs20 however, these "do  not modestly lie at the feet of the doctrine," as do the haggadic tales in the Talmud,  but  t'un\'ad expectedly  raise a heavy claw" against it. Even Kafka's  reaching down  to the sea bottom  of the past had this peculiar duality  of wanting  to preserve and wanting  to destroy.  He  wanted  to  pre\'ad serve it even though it was not truth,  if only for the sake of this "new   beauty  in  what  is  vanishing"  (see  Benjamin's  essay  on\
\
\li3380\ql
\f4\i\fs16 41\
\li2620\qj
\f7\i0\fs20 Leskov) ; and he knewi on the other  hand, that there is no more effective way to break the spell of tradition  than to cut out  the "rich  and strange," coral and pearls, from  what had been handed down in one solid piece.\
\fi306\li2600Benjamin exemp1i.fied  this ambiguity  of gesture  in  regard  to the past by analyzing the collector's  passion which  was his own. Collecting springs from a variety of motives whic:=h are not easily understood. As Benjamin was probably the first to emphasize, collecting \f5 is \f7 the passion of children, for  whom things are not yet commodities  and  are  not  valued according  to  their  usefulness, and \fs22 it \fs20 is also the hobby of the rich, who own enough not to need anything  useful and hence can afford  to  make "the  transfigura\'ad tion  of  objects"  \f4\i (Schriften \f7\i0 I, 416)  their  business. In  this  they must of necessity discover the beautiful,  which  needs "disinter\'ad ested delight"  (Kant)  to be recognized. At any rate, a collected object  possesses only an amateur value and no use value whatso.. ever. (Benjamin was not yet aware \'b7of the fact that collecting can also be an eminently sound and often  highly  profitable form  of investment.)  And inasmuch as collecting can fasten on any cate\'ad gory  of objects  (nnt  just art  objects, which  are in any case re\'ad moved from the everyday  world of use objects because they are "good"  for nothing)  and thus, as it were, redeem the object as a thing since \fs22 it \fs20 now is no longer a means to an end  but has its in\'ad trinsic worth,  Benjamin could  understand  the collector's  passion as an attitude  akin to that of the revolutionary.  Like the revolu\'ad tionary,  the  collector  "dreams  his way  not  only  into  a remote or bygone world, but at the same time into a better one in which, to  be sure,  people are not  provided  with  what  they  need  any more than  they  are in the everyday  world,  but in which  things are liberated from the drudgery  of usefulness" \f4\i (Schriften \f7\i0 I, 416).\
\fi140533\sl-216\slmult1
Collecting  is the  redemption  of  things  which  is to  complement\
\fi22\sl240\slmult1\li2580the redemption  of man. Even  the reading  of his books is some\'ad thing questionable to a true bibliophile: \f4\i\fs12 u \f7\i0\fs20 'And  you  have read all t:hese?' Anatole France is said to have been asked by an admirer of his library.  'Not one-tenth  of them. I don't  suppose you  use\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1\li2620your  Sevres  china  every  day?'"  ("Unpacking My  Library"). (In  Benjamin's library  there  were  collections  of  rare  children's\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li2960books and of books by mentally deranged authors; since he was interested  neither  in  child  psychology  nor  in  psychiatry,  these books, like many  others  among  his treasures, literally  were  not good  for  anything,  serving  neither  to  divert  nor  to  instruct.) Closely connected  with  this is the  fetish  character   which  Ben\'ad jamin explicitly claimed for collected objects. The  value of gen\'ad uineness which  is decisive for  the  collector  as well  as for  the market  determined  by  him has replaced  the "cult  value" and is \fs24 its \fs20 secularization.\
\sl-240\slmult1\li3280\ql
These  reflections, like so much  else \f5\fs22 in \f7\fs20 Benjamin, have some\'ad\
\sl240\slmult1\li2980\qj
thing  of  the  ingeniously  brilliant  which  is not  characteristic  of his essential insights, which  are, for  the  most part,  quite  down\'ad to-earth. Still, they are striking examples of the \f4\i\fs22 fianerie \f7\i0\fs20 in his thinking, of the way his mind worked,  when  he, like the  \f4\i\fs22 fldneur \f7\i0\fs20 in the city,  entrusted  himself to  chance  as a guide  on  his intel\'ad lectual   journeys  of  exploration.  Just  as  strolling  through   the treasures  of  the  past is the inheritor's  luxurious  privilege, so  is the "collector's attitude,  in the highest sense, the attitude  of the heir"  ("Unpacking My Library") who, by  taking  possession of things-and  "ownership  is  the  most  profound   relationship  that one can have to  objects"  (ihid.)-establishes himself in the  past, so as to achieve, undisturbed  by  the  present, "a  renewal  of  the old  world."  And  since  this "deepest  urge"  in  the  collector  has no public significance whatsoever but results in a strictly  private hobby,  everything  "that  is said from  the  angle of  the  true  col\'ad\
\qc
lector"  is bound  to appear as "whimsical"  as the  typically  Jean Paulian  vision of  one  of  those  writers  "who   write   books  not because they are poor, but because they  are dissatisfied with  the books  which  they  could  buy  but  do  not  like,  \f4\i (ibid.). \f7\i0 Upon closer  examination,  however,  this  whimsicality  has some  note\'ad worthy and not so harmless peculiarities. There  is, for one thing, the  gesture,  so  significant  of  an  era  of  public  darkness,  with which  the  collector  not  only  withdraws  from  the  public  into the privacy  of his four  walls but  takes along with  him all kinds of  treasures  that  once  were  public  property to  decorate  them. (This, of course, is not today's collector, who gets hold of what\'ad ever has or, in his estimate, will have a market  value or can en-\
\
\li3360\ql
\f4\i\fs18 43\
\fi11\li2620\qj
\f7\i0\fs20 hance his social status, but the collector who, like Benjamin, seeks strange  things that are considered valueless.) Also, in his passion for  the past for its own sake, born of his contempt  for the pres\'ad ent  as such  and  therefore  rather  heedless of  objective  quality, there  already  appears a disturbing  factor  to  announce  that  tra\'ad dition may be the last thing to guide  him and traditional  values by no means be as safe in his hands as one might  have assumed at first glance.\
\fi209\li2600For  tradition  puts the  past in order,  not  just chronologically but first of all systematically in that it separates the positive from the negative, the orthodox from the heretical, and which is obli\'ad gatory  and relevant from the mass of irrelevant  or merely inter\'ad esting  opinions  and  data. The  collector's  passion, on  the  other hand, is not only unsystematic but borders on the chaotic, not so much because it is a passion as because it is not primarily kindled by the quality  of the object-something that \fs22 is \fs20 classifiable-but is inflamed  by  its  "genuineness,"  its  uniqueness,  something   that defies any systematic classification. Therefore, while tradition dis\'ad criminates; the collector  levels all differences; and this leveling\'ad so that "the  positive and the negative ... predilection and rejec\'ad tion are here closely contiguous"  \f4\i\fs22 (Schriften \f7\i0\fs20 II, 313)-takes  place\
\fi140533\sl-216\slmult1
even  if  the  collector  has made tradition  itself  his special  field\
\fi5\sl240\slmult1
and carefully eliminated everything not recognized  by it. Against tradition the collector pits the criterion of genuineness; to the authoritative  he opposes the sign of origin. To  express this way of thinking in theoretical terms: he replaces content with pure originality or authenticity, something that only French Existen\'ad tialism established as a quality  \f4\i\fs22 per se \f7\i0\fs20 detached  from  all specific\
\fi140533\sl-216\slmult1
characteristics. \f5\fs22 If \f7\fs20 one carries this way  of  thinking  to its logical\
\sl-240\slmult1
conclusion,  the result is a strange inversion  of  the  orig nal\
lector's drive: "The  genuine picture may be old, but the genuine\
\sl240\slmult1
thought  is new. It is of the present. This  present may be meager, granted. But no matter what it is like, one must firmly take it by the  horns  to  be able  to  consult  the  past. It  is the  bull  whose blood must fill the pit if the shades of the departed  are to appear at its edg\'b7e" \f4\i\fs22 (Schriften \f7\i0\fs20 II, 314). Out  of this present when  it  has been sacrificed  for  the  invocation  of  the  past arises then  "the\
\
\li2960\ql
\f4\i\fs18 44\
\
\li2920\qj
\f7\i0\fs22 deadly impact of thought, which is directed against tradition and the authority of the past.\
\sl-240\slmult1\li3200\ql
Thus  the  heir and  preserver unexpectedly turns  into  a de\'ad\
\fi22\sl240\slmult1\li2900\qj
stroyer. "The  true, greatly misunderstood passion of the collec\'ad tor is always anarchistic, destructive. For this is its dialectics: to combine with loyalty to an object, to individual items, to things sheltered in  his care, a smbborn  subversive protest  against the typical, the classifiable." \fs12 28  \fs22 The collector destroys the context in which his object once was only part of a greater, living entity, and since only  the  uniquely genuine will do for  him he must cleanse the chosen object of everything that is typical about it. The figure of the collector, as old-fashioned as that of the \f4\i foi:neur, \f7\i0 could assume such eminently modern features in Benjamin be\'ad cause history  itself-that is, the  break in  tradition  which  took place at the beginning of this century-had already relieved him of this task of destruction and he only needed to bend down, as it were, to select his precious fragments from the pile of debris. In other words, the things themselves offered, particularly to a man who \f5\fs20 :finnly \f7\fs22 faced the present, an aspect which had pre\'ad viously been discoverable only from the collector's whimsical perspective.\
\fi323\li2880I do not know when Benjamin discovered the remarkable co\'ad incidence of  his old-fashioned inclinations with  the realities of the times; it must have been in the mid-twenties, when he began the serious study of Kafka, only to discover shortly thereafter in Brecht the poet who was most at home in this century. I do not mean to assert that Benjamin shifted his emphasis from  the col\'ad lecting of books to the collecting of quotations (exclusive with hlm) overnight or even within one year, although there is some evidence in the letters of a conscious shifting of emphasis. At any rate, nothing was more characteristic of him in the thirties than the little notebooks with black covers which he always carried with him and in which he tirelessly entered in the form of quo\'ad tations what daily living and reading nette4 him in the way of "pearls" and "coral." On occasion he read from them aloud, showed them around like items from a choice and precious col\'ad lection. And in this collection, which by then was anything but\
\
\fi140533\li3280\ql
\f4\i\fs18 45\
\fi5\li2680\qj
\f7\i0\fs22 whimsical, it was easy to find next to an obscure love poem from the eighteenth century the latest newspaper item, next to Goeck\'ad ing's "Der  erste Schnee" a report  from  Vienna dated summer\
\fi39\sl216\slmult1\li2660\fs20 1939, \fs22 saying that the local gas company had "stopped supplying gas to Jews. The gas consumption of the Jewish population in\'ad volved a loss for  the gas company, since the biggest consumers were the ones who did not pay their bills. The  Jews used the gas especially for committing suicide'' \f4\i (Briefe \f7\i0 II, 8:zo). Here in\'ad deed the shades of  the  departed were invoked on]y from  the sacrificial pit of the present.\
\fi323\sl240\slmult1\li2640The close affinity between the break in tradition and the seemingly whimsical figure of the collector who gathers his frag\'ad ments and scraps from the debris of the past is perhaps best illus\'ad trated  by  the fact,  astonishing only  at first glance, that  there probably was no period before ours in which old and ancient things, many of them long forgotten by tradition, have become general educational material which is handed to schoolboys everywhere in hundreds of thousands of copies. This amazing re\'ad vival, particularly of classical culture, which since the forties has been especially noticeable in relatively traditionless America, be\'ad gan in Europe in the twenties. There  it was initiated by  those who were most aware of the irreparability of the break in tradi\'ad tion-thus in Germany, and not only there, first and foremost by Martin Heidegger, whose extraordinary, and extraordinarily early, success in the twenties was essentially due to a "listening to the tradition that does not give itself np to the past but thinks of the present." \fs14 29  \fs22 Without  realizing it, Benjamin actually had more in common  with  Heidegger's  remarkable sense for   living  eyes and  living bones that  had  sea-changed into  pearls and  cora1, and as such could be saved and lifted into the present only by doing violence to their  context in interpreting  them with "the deadly impact" of new thoughts, than he did with the dialectical subtleties of his Marxist friends. For just as the above-cited clos\'ad ing sentence from the Goethe essay sounds as though Kafka had written it, the following words from a letter to Hofmannsthal dated\f5\fs12 I \f7\fs20 924 \fs22 make one think of some of Heidegger's essays written in the forties and fifties: "The  conviction which guides me in\
\
\fi11\li2920\ql
\fs20 my  literary  attempts  ... [is]  that  each  truth  has its  home, its ancestral  palace, in language, that  this palace was built  with  the oldest \f4\i\fs22 logoi, \f7\i0\fs20 and that  to a truth  thus founded  the insights of the sciences will remain inferior for as long as they make do here and there in the area of language like nomads, as it were, in the con\'ad viction  of  the  sign  character  of  language  which  produces  the irresponsible  arbitrariness  of their  terminology" \f4\i\fs22 (Briefe \f7\i0\fs20 I,  329). In the spirit of Benjamin's early work  on the philosophy  of lan\'ad guage, words  are  "the  opposite  of  all communication  directed toward  the  outside,"  just as truth  is "the  death  of  intention." Anyone who seeks truth  fares like the man in the fable about  the veiled picture  at  Sais; "this  is caused  not  by  some  mysterious\
\fi140533\qj
monstrousness of the content  to be unveiled but by the nature of truth  before  which  even  the  purest  fire  of  searching  is extin\'ad guished as though  under  water"  \f4\i\fs22 (Schriften \f7\i0\fs20 I,  151, 152).\
\sl-216\slmult1\li3220\ql
From  the  Goethe  essay on, quotations  are  at  the  center  of\
\fi17\sl240\slmult1\li2880\qc
every work  of Benjamin's. This  very  fact  distinguishes his writ\'ad ings from scholarly  works of all kinds in which it is the function of quotations  to  verify  and document  opinions, wherefore  they can safely be relegated  to the Notes. This  is out  of the question in  Benjamin. When   he was working  on  his study  of  German tragedy,  he boasted of a collection of "over  6oo quotati0ns  very systematically  and  clearly  arranged"   \f4\i\fs22 (Briefe \f7\i0\fs20 I,  339);   like  the\
\fi140533\sl-216\slmult1\li2900\qj
later  notebooks,  this collection  was not  an accumulation  of  ex\'ad\
\fi5\sl240\slmult1
cerpts intended  to facilitate the writing  of the study  but  consti\'ad tuted  the  main work,  with  the writing  as something  secondary. The  main work  consisted in tearing fragments  out of  their con\'ad text and arranging them afresh in such a way that they illustrated one another  and were able to prove their \f4\i\fs22 raison \fs20 d'\fs22 etre \f7\i0\fs20 in a free\'ad\
\fi140533\sl-216\slmult1
:floatifl:g state, as it  were. \f5 It \f7 definitely  was a sort  of  surrealistic\
\fi11\sl240\slmult1\li2880montage.  Benjamin's ideal  of  producing  a  work  consisting  en\'ad tirely  of quotations,  one that' was mounted  so masterfully  that \fs22 it \fs20 could dispense with any accompanying  text, may strike  one as whimsical \f5 in \f7 the extreme and self-destructive  to boot, but it was not, any more than were the contemporaneous surrealistic ex\'ad periments \\vhich arose from similar impulses. To  the extent  that an accompanying  text by  the author  proved  unavoidable, it was\
\
\fi140533\li3260\ql
\f9\i 41\
\fi11\sl216\slmult1\li2640\qj
\f7\i0\fs22 a matter of fashioning it in such a way as to preserve "the  in\'ad tention of such investigations/' namely, "to plumb the depths of language and thought  . . . by drilling rather  than  excavating, \f4\i (Briefe \f7\i0 I, \fs20 319), \fs22 so as not  to ruin everything with  explanations that seek to provide a causal or systematic connection. In so do\'ad ing Benjamin was quite aware that this new method of "drilling" resulted in a certain "forcing  of insights . . \bullet   whose inelegant pedantry, however, is preferable to today's almost universal habit of falsifying them,; it was equally clear to him that this method\
\fi140533\sl-216\slmult1
was bound  to  be "the  cause of certain  obscurities'' ( \f4\i Briefe  \f7\i0 I,\
\sl-312\slmult1\li26603 \fs20 JO). \fs22 What mattered tO him above \fs36 all \fs20 WaS \fs22 tO avoid anything that\
\sl-216\slmult1\li2640might be reminiscent of empathy, as though a given subject of\
\sl-240\slmult1
investigation had a message in readiness which easily communi\'ad\
cated itself, or could be communicated, to the reader or spec\'ad\
\fi5\sl216\slmult1
tator: \f4\i "No poem is intended for the reader, no picture for the beholder, no symphony for the listener, \f7\i0 ("The  Task of the Translator"; italics added).\
\fi300
This sentence; written quite early, could serve as motto for all of Benjamin>s literary  criticism. It should not  be misunder\'ad stood as another dadaist affront of an audience that  even then had already become quite used to all sorts of merely capricious shock effects and ''put-ons." Benjamin deals here  with  thought things, particularly those of a linguistic nature, which, according to him, "retain their meaning, possibly their best significance, if they are not \f4\i a priori \f7\i0 applied exclusively to .man. For example, one could speak of an unforgettable life or moment even if all men had forgotten  them. \f5\fs20 If \f7\fs22 the nature of such a life or moment re\'ad quired that it not be forgotten, that predicate would not contain a falsehood but merely a claim that is not being fulfilled by men, and perhaps also a reference to a realm in which it \f4\i is \f7\i0 fulfilled: God's remembrance" \f4\i\fs20 (ibid.). \f7\i0\fs22 Benjamin later gave up this theo\'ad logical background  but  not the theory and not  his method of drilling to obtain the essential in the form of quotations-as  one obtains water \f5 by \f7 drilling for it from a source concealed in the depths of the earth. This method is like the modern equivalent of ritual invocations, and the spirits that now arise invariably are those spiritual essences from a past that have suffered the Shake-\
\
\fi140533\sl240\slmult1\li2940\qc
\fs20 spearean  "sea-change"  from  living  eyes  to  pearls, from  living bones to  coral. For  Benjamin to  quote  is to  name, and naming rather  than  speaking, the word  rather  than  the sentence,  brings truth  to light. As one may  read in the  preface  to  the \f4\i Origin of German Tragedy,  \f7\i0 Benjamin  regarded   truth   as  an  exclusively acoustical phenomenon: "Not Plato but Adam," who gave things their. names, was to him the "father  of philosophy." Hence  tradi\'ad tion was the form in which these name-giving words were trans\'ad mitted; it too was an essentially acoustical  phenomenon. He  felt himself so akin to Kafka precisely because the latter, current  mis\'ad interpretations not\\Vithstanding, had "no  far-sightedness or 'pro\'ad phetic vision,' " but listened to tradition, and "he who listens hard\
\sl-264\slmult1\li2960\qj
does not see" ("Max  Brod's Book \fs28 on \fs20 Kafka").\
\sl-216\slmult1\li3260\ql
There  are good  reasons why  Benjamin's  philosophical inter\'ad\
\sl240\slmult1\li2980\qj
est from the outset concentrated  on the philosophy  of language, and  why  finally  naming  through  quoting  became for  him  the only possible and appropriate  way of dealing with the past with\'ad out  the aid of tradi ion.\
become as questionable as it has to us must eventually  come up against the  phenomenon  of  langu ge,\
\sl-240\slmult1
tained  ineradicably,  thwarting  all attemts  to  get  rid  of  \fs22 it  \fs20 once and for all. The  Greek  \f4\i\fs22 polis \f7\i0\fs20 will continue  to exist at the bottom of our political existence-that is, at the bottom  of the sea-for as\
\fi5\sl240\slmult1
long as we use the word "politics." This is what  the semanticists, who  with  good  reason attack  language  as the  one bulwark  be\'ad hind which the past hides-its confusion, as they say-fail to understand. They  are absolutely right: \f5 in \f7 the final analysis all problems are linguistic problems; they simply do not know the implications of what  they  are saying.\
\fi300
But Benjamin, who could not yet  have read Wittgenstein, let alone his successors, knew  a great  deal about  these very  things, because from  the beginning the problem  of  truth  had  presented itself to  him as a "revelation  ... which  must  be heard, that  is, which lies in the metaphysically acoustical sphere.u To  him, therefore, language was by no means primarily  the gift of speech which distinguishes man from other living beings, but, on the contrary, "the  world  essence . . . from  which  speech  arises"\
\
\fi140533\li3340\ql
\f4\i\fs16 49\
\
\li3020\fs20 lllu:miruuions\
\fi34\li2640\qj
\fs22 (Briefe \f7\i0\fs20 I, 197\}, which incidentally  comes quite close to Heideg\'ad ger's position that "man can speak only insofar as he is the sayer." Thus  there is "a language of truth, the tensionless and even silent depository of die ultimate secrets which all thought  is concerned with"  ("The Task of the Translatoru\},  and this is "the  true lan\'ad guage"  whose existence we  assume unthinkingly  as soon as we translate from one language into another. That \f5 is \f7 why  Benjamin\
\fi11
places at the center of his essay "The  Task of the Translator" the astonishing quotation from Mallarme in which the spoken lan\'ad guages in their multiplicity  and diversity suffocate, as it were, by virtue of their Babel-like tumult,  the \f4\i "immortelle parole," \f7\i0 which\
\fi140533\sl-216\slmult1
cannot  even be thought,  since "thinking  \f5\fs22 is \f7\fs20 writing  without  im\'ad\
\sl-240\slmult1
plement  or  whispers, silently,"  and  thus  prevent  tPe  voice  of truth  from  being heard on earth with the force of material, tan\'ad\
\fi5\sl240\slmult1\li2620\ql
gible  evidence.  Whatever   theoretical  revisions  Benjamin  may subsequently  have  made in  these theological-metaphysical  con\'ad victions, his basic approach,  decisive for  all his literary  studies, remained  unchanged:  not  to  investigate  the  utilitarian  or  com\'ad municative  functions  of  linguistic  creations,  but  to  understand them in their  crystallized and thus ultimately  fragmentary  form as intentionless  and  noncommunicative  utterances  of  a  "world essence." Whaelse does this mean than that  he understood  lan\'ad guage  as an  essentially  poetic  phenomenon?  And  this  \f4\i\fs24 is  \f7\i0\fs20 pre\'ad\
\fi140533\sl-216\slmult1\qj
cisely what  the last sentence  of  the  Mallarme  aphorism, which\
\fi5\sl240\slmult1\li2600he does not quote, says in unequivocal clarity: \f4\i "Seulement, sach\'ad ons n'existerait pas le vers: lui, philosophiquement remunere le defaut des langues, complement superieur"\f7\i0 -all this were  true  \f4\i if \f7\i0 poetry  did not exist, the poem that  philosophically makes good the defect  of  languages, is their  superior  complement.\fs12 30  \fs20 All  of which  says no  more,  though  in a slightly  more  complex  way, than what I mentioned  before-namely, that we are dealing here with  something  which  may  not  be unique  but  is certainly  ex\'ad tremely  rare:  the gift of \f4\i thinking poetically.\
\fi140533\sl-216\slmult1\li2920\ql
\f7\i0 And   this  thinking,  fed   by  the   present,  works   with   the\
\fi5\sl-240\slmult1\li2620\qj
"thought fragments''  it can wrest from the past and gather  about itself. Like a pearl diver who  descends to the bottom  of the sea, not to excavate the bottom and bring \fs22 it \fs20 to light but to pry loose\
\
\fi140533\sl240\slmult1\li2980\ql
\f4\i\fs16 )0\
\
\li2960\qj
\f7\i0\fs20 the rich  and the strange, the pearls and  the  coral in the  depths, and  to  carry  them  to  the  surface, this thinking  delves into  the depths  of the past-but not in order  to resuscitate it  the way  it was  and  to  contribute   to  the  renewal  of  extinct  ages. What guides this thinking is the conviction that although the living is subject  to  the  ruin  of  the  time, the  process of  decay  is at  the same time a process of crystallization,  that  in  the depth  of  the sea, into  which  sinks and is dissolved what  once was alive, some things  "suffer   a  sea-change"  and  survive  \f5\fs22 in  \f7\fs20 new  crystallized forms and shapes that remain immune to the elements, as though they  waited  only  for  the  pearl diver  who  one  day  will  come down  to them and bring  them up into  the world  of the living\'ad as "thought  fragments"\
\sl-240\slmult1\li2980perhaps even as everlasting \f4\i Urphiinomene.\
\fi210800\sl240\slmult1\li2480\qr
\f7\i0\fs16 HANNAH   ARENDT\
\
\
\
\fi140533\li2940\ql
\f4\i\fs24 'Notes\
\
\
\sl-264\slmult1\li2920\f7\i0\fs12 1. \fs20 Walter  Benjamin, \f4\i Schriften, \f7\i0 Frankfurt  a.M., Suhrkamp Verlag,\
\sl-216\slmult1\li26401955, \fs12 2 \fs20 vols., and \f4\i Briefe, \f7\i0 Frankfurt  a.M., 1966, \fs12 2  \fs20 vols. The  following\
\sl-192\slmult1\li2620references are to these editions.\
\sl240\slmult1\li2900\f4\i z. \f7\i0 Yearbook of the Leo Baeck Institute, 1965, p. 117.\
3\'b7 \f4\i Op. cit.\
\fi266\sl-216\slmult1\li2620\f7\i0 4\'b7 The  classical description  of  the  \f4\i fl&neur  \f7\i0 occurs  \fs22 in \fs20 Baudelaire's famous essay on Constantin Guys "Le Peintre  de la vie moderne"\'ad\
\fi140533
see Pleiade edition, pp. 877-83. Benjamin frequendy  refers to it indi\'ad\
\li2600rectly and quotes from it \f5 in \f7 the Baudelaire essay.\
\fi283\sl216\slmult1
\f4\i 5. \f7\i0 Both  have recently  reiterated  this-Scholem  \f5 in \f7 his Leo Baeck Memorial Lecture of \f4\i 1965, \f7\i0 in which he said, "I am inclined to con\'ad sider Brecht's influence on Benjamin's output  in the  thirties baleful, and in some respects disastrous,'' and Adorno  in a statement  to  his disciple Rolf Tiedemann  according  to which  Benjamin admitted  to Adorno  that he had written  "his essay on the Work  of Art  in order to outdo  Brecht, whom he was afraid of, in radicalism" (quoted  in Rolf Tiedemann,  \f4\i Studien zur Philosophie Walter  Benjamins, \f7\i0 Frank\'ad furt,  1965, p. 89). It  is improbable  that  Benjamin should  have ex\'ad pressed fear of Brecht, and Adorno  seems not  to claim that  he did. As for the rest of the statement, it is, unfortunately, all too likely that Benjamin made it  because he was afraid  of Adorno.  It  \f4\i\fs22 is \f7\i0\fs20 true  that Benjamin was very shy \f5 in \f7 his dealings with people he had not known since his youth, but he was afraid only of people he was dependent upon. Such a dependence on Brecht would have come about only if he  had  followed  Brecht's  suggestion  that  he  move from  Paris  to Brecht's vicinity in considerably less expensive Denmark. As it turned out, Benjamin had serious doubts  about  such  an  exclusive 'depen dence on one person" in a strange country  with  a "quite  unfamiliar language" \f4\i (Briefe \f7\i0 II, \f4\i 596,  \f7\i0 599).\
\fi140533\sl-264\slmult1\li28806. In  the  review  of  the  \f4\i Dreigroschenromlln. \f7\i0 Cf.  \f4\i Versuche ubet\
\sl-240\slmult1\li2600Brecht, \f7\i0 Frankfurt,  \f4\i 1966, \f7\i0 p. \fs18 90.\
\fi277\sl216\slmult1\qj
\fs20 7\'b7 It now seems that nearly everything has been saved. The  manu\'ad scripts hidden in Paris were, in accordance with  Benjamin's instruc\'ad tions, sent  to  Theodor  W.  Adorno;  according  to  Tiedemann   (\f4\i op. cit., \f7\i0 p. \fs14 212), \fs20 they are now in Adorno's 'lprivate collection" in Frank-\
\
\fi140533\sl240\slmult1\li2980\ql
\f4\i\fs16 !2\
\
\fi5\li2920\qj
\f7\i0\fs20 furt. Reprints and copies of most texts are also \f5 in \f7 Gershom Scholem's personal collection  in Jerusalem. The  material confiscated by the Gestapo has turned up \f5 in \f7 the German Democratic Republic. See "Der Benjamin-Nachlass \f5 in \f7 Potsdam" by Rosemarie Heise \f5 in \f4\i alternative, \f7\i0 October-Decembert  1967.\
\fi140533\li3200\ql
8. Cf. "Walter Benjamin hinter seinen Briefen,u \f4\i Merkur, \f7\i0 March\
\li2940\qj
\f5\fs18 r\'a27\'b7\
\li3180\ql
\f7\fs20 9\'b7 Cf. Pierre  Missact "L'Eclat   et  le  secret:  Walter   Benjamin,"\
\sl-240\slmult1\li2920\qj
\f4\i Critique, \f7\i0 Nos. \fs16 131-31, \fs20 1966.\
\fi294\sl216\slmult1\li2900\fs16 ro.  \fs20 Max  Rychner,   the  recently   deceased  editor   of   the   \f4\i Neue Schweizer  Rundschau, \f7\i0 was one of the most cultivated  and  most re\'ad fined figures \f5 in \f7 the intellectual life of the  time. Like Adorno,  Ernst Bloch, and Scholem, he published his "Erinnerungen  an Walter  Ben\'ad jamin" in \f4\i Der Monat, \f7\i0 September, 196o.\
\fi140533\sl240\slmult1\li3200\ql
\f5\fs12 II. \f4\i\fs20 Ibid.\
\fi289\sl-240\slmult1\li2900\qj
\f7\i0\fs14 I 1. \fs20 Kafka, whose outlook on these matters was more realistic than that  of  any  of  his contemporaries,  said  that  "the  father   complex which is the intellectual nourishment of many ... concerns the \f5\fs24 J\f7\fs20 ucla\'ad ism of the fathers . . . the vague consent of the fathers  (this vague\'ad ness was  the  outrage)" to  their  sons' leaving  of  the  Jewish  fold:\
\fi140533\sl-216\slmult1
"with  their  hind legs they  were still stuck  to  the  Judaism  of  their\
\sl240\slmult1\li2920fathers, and  with  the forelegs they  found  no  new  ground"   (Franz\
\li2900Kafka, \f4\i Briefe, \f7\i0 p. 337).\
\li3200\ql
13. \f4\i Ibid., \f7\i0\fs22 p. \f4\i\fs20 55\'b7\
\f7\i0\fs16 '4\'b7 \f4\i\fs20 Ibid., \f7\i0 p. \fs16 339\'b7 IS\'b7 \f4\i\fs20 Ibid., \f7\i0\fs22 P\'b7 \fs20 337\'b7\
\fs18 16. \f4\i\fs20 Ibid., \f7\i0 pp. \fs18 336-38.\
\sl-264\slmult1\li3180\fs20 '1.7. Franz Kafka, \f4\i Tagebiicher, \f7\i0 p. 42.\
\sl240\slmult1\li3200r8. Franz Kafka,  \f4\i Briefe, \f7\i0 p. 347\'b7\
\fs16 19. \f4\i\fs20 Ibid., \f7\i0 p. \fs16 378.\
\fi283\li2900\fs12 20. \fs20 In "Der Autor als Produzent," a lecture given \f5 in \f7 Paris in \fs18 193 \fs20 in which  Benjamin quotes an earlier essay on  the  intellectual  Left. See  \f4\i V ersuche iiber Brecht, \f7\i0 p. \fs18 109.\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1\li3180\fs12 11. \fs20 Quoted \f5 in \f7 Max Brod, \f4\i Franz Kafkas Glauben und Lehre, \f5\i0 Win\'ad\
\sl-192\slmult1\li2900\qj
\f7 terthur,  \fs16 1948.\
\fi289\sl240\slmult1\li2880\fs12 12. \fs20 Brecht,  for  instance, told Benjamin that  his essay on  Kafka gave aid and comfort  to Jewish Fascism. See \f4\i Versuche, \f7\i0 p. \f5\fs16 u\f7\fs20 3\'b7\
\
\fi140533\li3280\ql
\fs14 jJ\
\
\li3120\f4\i\fs20 llluniinatiom\
\li3000\f7\i0 23. Franz Kafkat \f4\i Briefe, \f7\i0 p. 183.\
\fi294\sl216\slmult1\li2720\qj
14. In  the above-mentioned article Pierre  Missac deals with  the same  passage and  writes:  \f4\i "Sam  sous-estimer  la valeur  d'une  telle reussite [d'etre  le successeur de Hamann et de Humboldt], on peut penser que Benjamin recherchait  aussi dans le Marxisme un moyen d'y echapper." \f7\i0 (Without underestimating the value of such a success [being  the  successor of  Hamann  and  Humboldt], it  is  possible to think that Benjamin also sought in Marxism a means of escaping it.)\
\fi140533\sl240\slmult1\li3000\ql
25. One is immediately reminded of Brecht's poem "On  the Poor\
\sl-216\slmult1\li2720\qj
B.B."-\
\sl240\slmult1\li3000\ql
\f4\i Friihlich machet das Haus den Esser: er leert es.\
\li3160Von diesen Stiidten wird bleiben: der durch sie hindurchging, der Wind!\
\li3000Frohlich machet das Haus den Esser: er leert es. Wir wissen, dass wir Vorliiufige sind\
\sl-216\slmult1
Und nach uns wird kommen: nichts Nennenswertes.\
\sl-192\slmult1\li2720\qj
\f7\i0 ("Of   these cities will  remain  that  which  blew  through  them,  the\
\fi5\sl240\slmult1\li2700wind./The  house makes the  feaster  merry.  He  cleans it  out.f\\Ve know we're only temporary  and after us will follow/Nothing worth talking about." \f4\i The  Manual of Piety, \f7\i0 New  York, \fs18 1966.)\
\fi140533\sl-192\slmult1\li2960\ql
\fs20 Worth noting, too,  is a  remarkable  aphorism  of  Kafka  \f5 in \f7 the\
\fi11\sl240\slmult1\li2700\qj
"Notes  from  the  Year \fs12 1910" \fs20 under the  title "He":  "Everything   he does appears  to  him \'b7extraordinarily  new  but  also, because of  the impossible abundance of the new, extraordinarily  amateurish, indeed hardly  tolerable,  incapable of  becoming  historical, tearing  asunder the chain of generations, breaking off for  the first time the music of the world  which until now could at least be divined in all its depth. Sometimes \f5 in \f7 his conceit  he is more worried  about  the  world  than about himself/'\
\fi272\sl-216\slmult1
The  predecessor of this mood is, again, Baudelaire. \f4\i "Le monde va finir. La seule raison pour laquelle il pouvait durer, c'est qu'elle existe.\
\fi140533\sl168\slmult1
Que cette raison est faible, comparee d  toutes celles qui annoncent le contraire, particulierement \fs28 a \fs20 celie-ci: qu'est-ce que le monde a de.. sormais \fs30 a \fs20 faire sous le ciel? \f7\i0 . . . \f4\i Quant \fs30 a \fs20 moi qui sens quelquefois en\
\sl240\slmult1
moi le ridicule d'un prophete, je  sais que je n'y  trouverai jamais la charite d'un medecin. Perdu dans ce vilain monde, coudoye  par les foules, je  suis comme un bomme lasse dont l'oeil ne voit en arriere, dans les annees profondes, que desabusement et amertume, et devant lui qu'un orage ou rien de neuf n'en contenu, ni enseignement ni\
\sl-216\slmult1
douleur." From ]ournaux intimes, \f7\i0 Pieiade edition, pp. \fs18 II9S-97\'b7\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li3080\ql
\f4\i\fs20 54\
\li3220\f7\i0 2.6. Cf. Kafka, \f4\i Briefe, \f7\i0\fs22 p. \fs20 173.\
\sl-240\slmult1
17. \f5 A  \f7 selection  appeared   under  the  title  \f4\i Parables and Paradoxes\
\sl-216\slmult1\li2940\f5\i0 in \f7 a bilingual  edition  (Schocken  Books, New  York,  \fs18 1961).\
\sl240\slmult1\li3220\fs16 28. \fs20 Benjamin,  "Lob   der  Puppe,"  \f4\i Literarische Welt, \f7\i0 January   \fs12 10,\
\li2960\fs18 1930.\
\sl-240\slmult1\li3200\fs20 29. See Martin  Heidegger, \f4\i Kants These iiber das Sein, \f7\i0 Frankfurt,\
\sl-216\slmult1\li2940\fs18 1961, \fs22 p. \fs18 8.\
\fi283\sl240\slmult1\li292030. \fs20 For  the  aphorism  \f5 by \f7 Mallarme,  see "Variations sur  un  sujet" under  the subtide "Crise  des vers," Pleiade  edition, pp. 363-64.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\fi140533\li3280\f4\i 55\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\fi210800\li2480\qr
\f7\i0\fs36 'J\f4\i\fs32 lluminations\
\
\fi140533\li3240\ql
\f5\i0\fs50 +\
\li3220\f4\i\fs36 Unpacking \fs32 .J\\Ify \fs36 \'a3ibrary\
\
\fs24 .A Talk about Book Collecting\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\fi294\sl-240\slmult1\li2920\f7\i0\fs22 I am unpacking my library. Yes, I am. The books are not yet on the shelves, ot\
\fi140533\qj
cannot march up and down their ranks to pass them in review\
\fi5\sl240\slmult1
before a friendly audience. You need not  fear any of that. In\'ad stead, I must ask you to  join me in the  disorder of crates that have been wrenched  open, the  air saturated  with  the  dust  of\
\fi140533
wood, the floor covered with tom paper, to join me among piles of  volumes that  are seeing daylight  again  after  two  years  of darkness, so that you may be ready to share with me a bit of the mood-it is certainly not an elegiac mood but, rather, one of an\'ad ticipation-which these books arouse in a genuine collector. For such a man is speaking to you, and on closer scrutiny he proves \fs20 to \fs22 be speaking only about himself. Would it not be presumptuous of me if, \fs20 in \fs22 order to appear convincingly objective and down-to\'ad earth, I enumerated for  you the main sections or prize pieces of a library, \fs20 if \fs22 I presented you with their history or even their use\'ad fulness to a writer?  I, for one, have in mind something less ob\'ad scure, something more palpable than that; what I am really con\'ad cerned with is giving you some insight into the relationship of\
\
\li3300\ql
\f4\i\fs16 59\
\
\fi34\li2660\qj
\f7\i0\fs20 a book collector  to his possessions, into collecting  rather  than a collection. \f5 If \f7 I do this by elaborating on the various ways of ac\'ad quiring  books, this is something  entirely  arbitrary.  This  or  any other  procedure  is merely a- dam against the spring tide of mem\'ad ories which surges toward any collector as he contemplates his possessions. Every  passion borders on the chaotic, but the collec\'ad tor's  passion borders on the chaos of memories. More than  that: the chance, the fate, that suffuse the past before my eyes are conspicuously   present  in  the  accustomed   confusion  of   these books. For  what  else is this collection  but  a disorder  to  which habit has accommodated itself to such an extent that it can appear as order?  You  have all heard of people whom  the loss of  their books has turned  into invalids, or of those who in order  to  ac\'ad quire  them became criminals. These are the very  areas in which any order is a balancing act of extreme precariousness. "The  only exact knowledge  there  is," said Anatole  France,  "is the  knowl\'ad edge of the date of  publication and  the format  of books." And indeed, if there is a counterpart  to the confusion  of a library,  it is the order  of its catalogue.\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1\li2960\ql
Thus  there is in the life of a collector a dialectical tension be\'ad\
\sl240\slmult1\li2660\qj
tween the poles of disorder and order. Naturally,  his existence is tied to many other things as well: to a very  mysterious relation\'ad ship to  ownership,  something  about  which  we shall have  more to say later; a]so, to a relationship to objects which does not em\'ad phasize their  functional,  utilitarian  value-that is, their  useful\'ad ness-but studies and loves them as the scene, the stage, of  their fate. The  most  profound  enchantment  for  the  collector  is the locking of individual items within a magic circle in which  they are fixed as the  final thrill,  the thrill  of acquisition,  passes over them.  Everything  remembered   and  thought,   everything   con\'ad scious, becomes the pedestal, the frame, the base, the lock  of his property. The period, the region, the craftsmanship, the former ownership-for a true collector the whole background  of an item adds up to a magic encyclopedia  whose quintessence is the  fate of  his object.  In  this circumscribed  area,  then,  it  may  be  sur\'ad mised how the great  physiognomists-and collectors are the physiognomists of the world of objects-turn into interpreters of\
\
\li3040\ql
\f4\i\fs16 6o\
\
\li3280\fs18 Unpacking \fs20 My \fs18 Librllfy\
\fi5\li2900\qj
\f7\i0\fs22 fate. One has only to watch a collector handle the objects in his glass case. As he holds them in \fs20 his  \fs22 hands, he seems to be seeing through them into their distant past as though inspired. So much for the magical side of the collector-his  old-age image, I might call it.\
\fi311\sl216\slmult1
\f4\i\fs24 Habent \fs16 SUtt  \fs24 fata  lihelli: \f7\i0\fs22 these words may have been intended as a general statement about books. So  books like \f4\i\fs24 The Divine Comedy, \f7\i0\fs22 Spinoza's \f4\i\fs24 Ethics, \f7\i0\fs22 and \f4\i\fs24 The \fs20 Origin \fs24 of Species \f7\i0\fs22 have their fates. A collector, however, interprets  this Latin saying differ\'ad ently. For  him, not  only  books but also copies of  books have their  fates. And  in  this sense, the  most  important  fate  of  a copy is its encounter with him, with his own colle.ction. I am not exaggerating when I say that to a true collector the acquisition of an old book is its rebirth. This is the childlike element which in a collector mingles with the element of old age. For children can accomplish the renewal of existence in a hundred unfailing ways. Among children, collecting is only one process of renewal; other  processes are the painting of objects, the  cutting  out  of figures, the application of decals-the  whole range of  childlike modes of acquisition, from touching things to giving them names. To  renew the  old world-that is the  collectorts deepest desire when he is driven to acquire new things, and that is why a col\'ad lector  of older books is closer to the  wellsprings of collecting than the acquirer of luxury editions. How  do books cross the threshold of a collection and become the property of a collector?\
\fi5\sl-240\slmult1\li2880The  history of their acquisition is the subject of the following remarks.\
\fi300\sl216\slmult1\li2900Of all the ways of acquiring books, writing them oneself is regarded as the most praiseworthy method. At  this point many of you will remember with pleasure the large library which Jean Paurs poor little schoolmaster Wutz gradually acquired by writ\'ad ing, himself, all the works whose titles interested him in book\'ad fair catalogues; after all, he could not afford to buy them. Writ\'ad ers are really people who write books not because they are poor, but because they are dissatisfied with the books which they could buy but do not like. You, ladies and gentlemen, may regard this as a whimsical definition of a writer. But everything said from\
\
\fi140533\sl240\slmult1\li3260\ql
\f4\i\fs18 61\
\fi28\li2620\qj
\f7\i0\fs20 the  angle  of  a  real  collector  is  whimsical.  Of  the  customary modes of  acquisition,  the  one  most  appropriate   to  a  collector ""Nould be the borrowing  of a book with its attendant  non-return\'ad ing. The  book  borrower  of real stature  whom  we envisage here proves himself to be an inveterate collector  of books not so much by the fervor  with  which  he guards his borrowed  treasures and by the deaf ear which  he turns to all reminders from  the every\'ad day world of legality as by his failure to read these books. \f5 If \f7 my experience may serve as evidence, a man is more likely to return a borrowed  book upon  occasion than  to  read \fs22 it. \fs20 And  the non\'ad reading of books, you will object, should be characteristic  of collectors? This is news to me, you may say. It is not news at all. Experts will bear me out when I say that it is the oldest thing in the world. Suffice it  to quote  the answer which  Anatole  France gave to  a philistine who  admired  his library  and  then  .finished with  the standard  question, "And  you  have read all these books, Monsieur France?" "Not one-tenth  of them. I don't suppose you use your Sevres china every  day?"\
\fi396\li2640Incidentally,  I have put  the right  to such an attitude  to the test. For years, for  at least the first third  of its existence, my li\'ad brary  consisted of no more than two or three shelves which  in\'ad creased only by inches each year. This was its militant age, when no book was allowed to enter  it without  the certification  that  I had not read it. Thus I might never have acquired a library ex\'ad tensive enough to be worthy of the name if there  had not  been an inflation. Suddenly  the  emphasis shifted;  books acquired  real value, or, at any rate, were difficult to obtain. At least this is how it seemed in Switzerland.  At  the eleventh  hour  I sent  my  first major book orders from there and in this way was able to secure such irreplaceable items as \f4\i Der blaue Reiter \f7\i0 and Bachofen's \f4\i Sage\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1
\fs22 von \fs20 Tanaquil, \f7\i0 which could still be obtained  from  the publishers\
\sl-216\slmult1
at that  time.\
\fi294\sl-240\slmult1
Well-so you  may say-after exploring  all these byways  we should  finally  reach  the   wide  highway   of  book  acquisition, namely, the purchasing of books. This is indeed a wide highway, but not a comfortable  one. The  purchasing done by a book  col\'ad lector  has very  little  in common  with  that  done in a  bookshop\
\
\fi140533\sl240\slmult1\li2980\qc
\f4\i 6.z\
\fi5\li2940\qj
\f7\i0 by  a student  getting  a textbook,  \fs24 a \fs20 man  of  the  world  buying  a present  for  his lady,  or  a businessman intending to _while away his next  train  journey.  \f5 I\f7 have  made  my  most  memorable  pur\'ad chases on trips, as a transient. Property and  possession belong to the tactical sphere. Collectors are people  with a tactical instinct; their  experience  teaches them that  when  they  capture  a strange city, the smallest antique shop can be a fortress,  the IllOSt remote stationery store  a key  position. \fs24 How many \fs20 cities  have revealed themselves to  me \fs24 in \fs20 the  marches \f5 I\f7 undertook  in the  pursuit  of books!\
\fi306
By no means all of the most important purchases are made on the  premises of a dealer. Catalogues play  a far greater  part. And even though  the  purchaser  may be thoroughly acquainted  with the book ordered from a catalogue, the individual copy always remains a surprise. and the order alw  ys\
\fi140533
are grievous  disappointments,  but  also happy  finds. I remember, for  instance,  that  I  once  ordered  a  book  with  colored  illustra\'ad tions for my old collection of children's books only because it contained fairy tales by Albert Ludwig Grimm  and was published at  Grimma,  Thuringia. Grimma  was also  the  place  of  publica\'ad tion  of  a  book  of  fables  edited  by  the  same  Albert  Ludwig\
\sl-240\slmult1\li2960Grimm.  With  its sixteen illustrations  \fs24 my \fs20 copy  of . this book  of\
\li2940fables  was the  only  extant  example  of  the  early  work  of  the\
\sl240\slmult1
great  Gennan book  illustrator  Lyser,  who  lived  in  Hamburg around  the middle of the last century. Well,  my reaction  to the consonance  of  the  names had  been  correct. In  this  case too  I discovered  the  work  of  Lyser,  namely   \f4\i Linas Miircbenbuch,  \f7\i0 a work  which  has remained  unknown   to  his  bibliographers  and which  deserves a more  detailed  reference than  this  first  one  I am introducing here.\
\fi306
The  acquisition of books is by  no means a matter  of money or expert  knowledge  alone. Not  even both  factors  together  suf\'ad fice for the establishment of a real library, which is always some\'ad what impenetrable  and at the same time  uniquely  itself. Anyone who  buys  from  catalogues  must  have  flair  in  addition  to  the qualities I have mentioned. Dates, place names, formats,  previous owners,  bindings,  and  the  like:  all  these  details  must  tell  him\
\fi11\sl216\slmult1\li2600\fs22 something-not  as \fs24 dry, \fs22 isolated facts, but as a harmonious whole; from the quality and intensity of this harmony he must be able to recognize whether a book is for  him or not. An auction re\'ad quires yet another set of qualities in a collector. To  the reader of a catalogue the book itself must speak, or possibly \fs20 its \fs22 previous ownership \fs24 if \fs22 the provenance of the copy  has been established. A man who wishes to participate at an auction must pay equal attention to the book and to his competitors, in addition to keep.. ing a cool enough head to avoid being carried away in the com\'ad petition. It  is a  frequent  occurrence  that  someone gets stuck with a high purchase \fs24 price \fs22 bee:ause he kept raising his bid-more to assert himself than to acquire the book. On the other  hand, one of the finest memories of a collector is the moment when he rescued a book to which he might never have given a thought, much less a wishful look, because he found it lonely and aban\'ad doned on the market place and bought it to give it its freedom\'ad the way the prince bought a beautiful slave girl in \f4\i The Arabian Nights. \f7\i0 To  a book collector, you see, the true freedom of all books is somewhere on his shelves.\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1\li2900\ql
To  this day, Balzacs\
\sl240\slmult1\li2600\qj
rows of French volumes in my library as a memento of my most exciting experience at an auction. This happened in \fs20 1915 \fs22 at the Riimann auction put up by Emil Hirsch, one of the greatest of book experts and most distinguished of dealers. The  edition in question appeared in \f5\fs20 1838 \f7\fs22 in Paris, Place de la Bourse. \f4\i\fs20 As \f7\i0\fs22 I pick\
\sl-216\slmult1
up my copy, I see not \fs24 only \fs22 its number in the Rtimann collection,\
\sl-240\slmult1
but even the label of the shop in which the :first owner bought\
\fi5\sl216\slmult1
the book over ninety years ago for one'-eightieth of today's price. "Papeterie \f5 I. \f7 Flanneau," it says. A fine age in which \fs20 it \fs22 was still possible to buy such a de luxe edition at a stationery  dealer's! The steel engravings of this book were designed by the foremost French graphic artist and executed by  the foremost engravers. But I was going to tell you how I acquired this book. I ha4 gone to Emil Hirsch's for an advance inspection and had handled forty or fifty volumes; that particular volume had inspired in me the ardent desire to hold on to it forever. The  day of the auction came. As chance would have it, in the sequence of the auction\
\sl240\slmult1\li2920this copy of \f4\i La Peau de chagrin \f7\i0 was preceded by a complete set of its illustrations printed separately on India paper. The bidders sat at a long table; diagonally across from  me sat the man who was the focus of all eyes at the first bid, the famous Munich col\'ad lector Baron von Sirnolin. He was greatly interested in this set, but  he had rival bidders; in short, there  was a spirited  contest which resulted in the highest bid of the entire auction-far in ex\'ad cess of three thousand marks. No one seemed to have expected such a high figure, and all those present were quite excited. Emil Hirsch  remained unconcerned, and whether  he wanted  to save time or was guided by some other consideration, he proceeded to the next item, with no one really paying attention. He called out the price, and with my heart pounding and with the full realization that I was unable to compete with any of those big collectors I  bid a somew at\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1
the bidders' attention, the auctioneer went through the usual rou\'ad\
\sl240\slmult1
tine-"Do I hear m\'ab?re?" and three bangs of  his gavel, with an eternity seeming to separate each from the next-and  proceeded to add the auctioneer's charge. For  a student  like me the sum\
\li2880\qc
was still considerable.. The following morning at the pawnshop is no longer part of this story, and I prefer  to speak about an\'ad other  incident  which  I should like to  call the  negative of  an auction. It happened last year at a Berlin auction. The collection of books that was offered was a miscellany \f5 in \f7 quality and subject matter, and only a number of rare works on occultism and nat\'ad ural philosophy were  worthy  of  note. I  bid for  a  number of them, but each time I noticed a gentleman in the front row who seemed only to have waited for my bid to counter with his own, evidently prepared to top any offer. After this had been repeated several times, I gave up all hope of acquiring the book which I was most interested in that day. It was the  rare \f4\i Fragmente  aus dem Nachlass eines jungen Physikers \f7\i0 [Posthumous Fragments of\
\sl-216\slmult1\li2920\qj
a Young Physicist] which Johann Wilhelm Ritter  published in\
\sl-240\slmult1
two volumes at Heidelberg in  \fs14 1\fs20 810. \fs22 This  work  has never been\
\li2940reprinted, but I have always considered its preface, in which the author-editor tells the story of his life in the guise of an obituary\
\li2920for  \fs20 his \fs22 supposedly deceased unnamed friend-with whom he \f5\fs20 is\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li3320\ql
\f9\i\fs22 6s\
\fi5\li2640\qj
\f7\i0\fs20 really  identical-as the most important  sample of  personal prose of German  Romanticism. Just as the item came up I had a brain wave. It was simple enough: since my bid was bound to give the item to the other  man, I must not bid at all. I controlled  myself and remained silent. What  I  had hoped  for  carne about:  no in\'ad terest, no bid, and the book was put aside. I deemed it wise to let several days go by, and when I appeared  on  the  premises after a  week,  I found  the  book  in  the  secondhand   department  and benefited by the lack of interest when I acquired  it.\
\fi306\sl-240\slmult1\ql
Once  you  have approached  the  mountains  of  cases in  order to mine he\
\fi140533\li2620\qj
-or, rather, of night-what memories crowd  in upon \f5 you! \f7 Noth\'ad\
\sl240\slmult1
ing highlights the fascination of unpacking  more clearly than the difficulty of stopping  this activity. I had started  at noon, and it was midnight before I had worked my way to the last cases. Now I put  my  hands on two  volumes bound  in faded  boards which, strictly  speaking, do not belong in a book case at all: two albums\
\sl-240\slmult1
with stick-in  pictures which \fs24 my \fs20 mother  pasted in as a child and\
which I inherited. They  are the seeds of a collection of children's\
\sl240\slmult1\li2600\qc
books which  is growing  steadily  even  today,  though  no longer in my garden. There  is no living library  that  does not  harbor  a number  of booklike creations from  fringe  areas. They  need not be stick-in  albums or  family  albums, autograph  books or  port\'ad folios containing  pamphlets or religious tracts;  some people be\'ad come attached to leaflets and prospectuses, others to handwriting facsimiles or typewritten copies of unobtainable  books; and cer\'ad tainly periodicals can form  the prismatic fringes of a library. But to get back to those a]bums: Actua11y, inheritance  is the soundest way  of acquiring  a collection. For a collector's  attitude  toward his possessions stems from  an  owner's  feeling  of  responsibility toward  his property. Thus  it is, in the highest sense, the attitude of an heir, and the most distinguished trait of a coJlection will al\'ad ways be its transmissibility. You should know  that in saying this I fully  realize that  my  discussion of  the  mental  climate of col\'ad lecting  will confirm  many  of you  in your  conviction  that  this passion is behind the times, in your distrust of the collector type. Nothing is further  from my mind than to shake either your con-\
\
\li3000\ql
\f9\i 66\
\
\li3300\f4\fs18 Unpaeking \fs20 My \fs18 Library\
\li2920\qj
\f7\i0\fs20 viction or your distrust. But one thing should be noted:  the phenomenon  of collecting  loses its meaning as it loses its personal owner.  Even though  public collections may be less objectionable socially and more useful academ cally\
\fi5
objects  get  their  due only  in the latter. I do  know  that  time is running  out for  the type  that I am discussing here and have been representing  before you a bit \f4\i\fs24 ex officio. \f7\i0\fs20 But, as Hegel put it, only when  it is dark  does the  owl of Minerva  begin its flight.  Only in extinction  is the collector  comprehended.\
\fi300\ql
Now  I am on  the  last half-emptied  case and  it  is way  past midnight. Other  thoughts :fill me than the ones I am talking about\
\fi5\qj
-not thoughts  but  images, memories. Memories  of  the  cities in which I found so many things: Riga, Naples, Munich, Danzig, Moscow,  Florence,  Basel, Paris; memories of  Rosenthal's  sump\'ad tuous rooms in Munich, of the Danzig Stockturm where  the late Hans Rhaue was domiciled, of Si.issengut's musty  book  cellar in North Berlin; memories  of  the  rooms  where  these  books  had been  housed, of  my  student's  den  in  Munich,  of  my  room  in Bern, of the solitude of Iseltwald on the Lake of Brienz, and  \f5 fi\'ad \f7 nally of my boyhood  room, the former  location  of only four  or five of the several thousand volumes that are piled up around  me.\
\fi22\li29000 bliss of the  collector,  bliss of  the man of leisure! Of  no one has less been expected, and no one has had a greater sense of well\'ad being than the man who  has been able to carry  on  his disrepu\'ad table existence in the mask of Spitzweg's  "Bookworm., For  in\'ad side him there are spirits, or at least little genii, which  have seen to it that for a collector-and I mean a real collector,  a collector as he ought  to  be-ownership is the  most  intimate  relationship that  one can have to objects. Not  that  they  come  alive in him; \fs22 it \fs20 is he who lives in them. So I have erected  one of his dwellings, with  books  as the  building stones, before  you,  and  now  he  is going to disappear inside, as is only fitting.\
\
\fi140533\li3180\ql
\f5\fs50 +\
\li3160\f6\i\fs34 1he Task  of the Translator\
\
\sl288\slmult1\li3180\f4\fs24 .An 1ntroduction \f7\i0\fs20 to \f4\i\fs24 tbe 1 ranslation of  Baudelaire's \f7\i0\fs16 TABLEAUX  PARISI'ENS\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\fi306\sl240\slmult1\li2880\fs22 In the appreciation of a work of art or an art form, consid eration of  the  receiver never  proves fruitful.  Not  only  is any reference to a certain public or its representatives misleading, but even the  concept  of  an  ''ideal" receiver is detrimental  in  the theoretical consideration of art, since all it posits is the existence and nature of man as such. Art, in the same way, posits man,s physical and spiritual existence, but in  none of  its works \fs20 is \fs22 it concerned with his response. No poem is intended for the reader, no picture for the beholder, no symphony for the listener.\
\fi294\qj
Is a translation meant for readers who do not understand the original? This would seem to explain adequately the divergence of their standing in the realm of art. Moreover, it seems to be the only conceivable reason for saying "the same thing, repeatedly.\
\fi140533\sl216\slmult1
For what does a literary work "say"? What  does it communi\'ad cate? It utells" very little to those who understand \fs20 it. \fs22 Its essential quality is not  statement  or  the  imparting of  information.  Yet any translation which intends to perform a transmitting function cannot transmit anything  but information-hence, something in\'ad essential. This is the hallmark of bad translations. But do we not\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li3040\ql
\f4\i\fs16 Illumi'fllltions\
\
\fi5\li2660\qj
\f7\i0\fs20 generally  regard  as the  essential substance  of  a  literary   work what it contains in addition to information-as even a poor trans\'ad lator will admit-the unfathomable, the mysterious, the "poetic," something  that  a translator  can  reproduce  only  if  he  is also a poet? This, actually, is the cause of another  characteristic  of in\'ad ferior translation, which consequently we may define as the in\'ad accurate  transmission of an inessential content.  This  will be true whenever  a translation undertakes to serve the reader. However, \fs22 if \fs20 it were intended for  the reader, the same would  have to apply to the original. \f5 If \f7 the original does not exist for  the reader's sake, how  could  the  translation  be  understood  on  the  basis of  this premise?\
\fi306
Translation  is a mode. To  comprehend  it  as mode one must go back to the original, for that contains the law governing the translation:  its translatability. The question of whether  a work  is translatable  has a dual meaning. Either:  Will  an adequate  trans\'ad lator  ever be found  among the totality  of its readers?  Or,  more pertinently: Does its nature  lend itself to  translation  and, there\'ad fore,  in  view  of  the  significance of  the  mode,  call  for  it?  In principle,  the  first  question  can be  decided  only  contingently; the second, however, apodictically. Only superficial thinking will deny  the  independent  meaning  of  the  latter  and  declare  both questions to be \f4\i of  \f7\i0 equal significance.... It should  be pointed out that  certain  correlative  concepts  retain  their  meaning, and  pos\'ad sibly their foremost  significance, if they  are referred  exclusively to man. One  might, for  example, speak of an  unforgettable  life or moment even \fs22 if \fs20 all men had forgotten  \fs22 it. \f5\fs20 If \f7 the nature of such a life or moment  required  that it be unforgotten, that  predicate would not imply a falsehood but merely a claim not fulfilled by men, and probably  also a reference to a realm in which it \f4\i\fs22 is \f7\i0\fs20 ful\'ad\
\fi140533\sl-216\slmult1
filled:  God's  remembrance.   Analogously,  the  translatability  of\
\fi5\sl-240\slmult1
linguistic  creations  ought  to  be considered  even  \fs22 if \fs20 men should prove unable to translate them. Given a strict  concept  of transla\'ad tion, would  they  not really  be translatable to some degree? The\
\fi140533
question  as to whether  the translatio:rt  of certain  linguistic crea\'ad\
\sl240\slmult1
tions is called for ought to be posed in this sense. For this thought\
\
\li3020\ql
\f8 70\
\
\li3300\f4\i The  Task of the Trtmslauw\
\li2940\f7\i0 is valid here: \f5 If \f7 translation \f5 is \f7 a mode, translatability  must  be an essential feature  of certain  works.\
\fi306\li2880\qr
Translatability is an essential quality  of certain  works, which is not  to say that  it is essential that  they  be translated;  \fs22 it \fs20 means rather  that  a specific significance inherent  in  the  original  mani\'ad fests \fs22 itself \fs20 in its translatability.  It is plausible that  no translation, however good it may be, can have any significance as regards the original.. Yet, by virtue of its translatability  the original is closely connected  with  the translation; in fact,  this connection  \f5 is \f7 all the closer since it is no longer of importance  to the original. We  may call this connection  a natural  one, or,  more  specifically,  a vital connection.  Just  as the manifestations of life are intimately  con\'ad nected with the phenomenon of life without  being of importance to it, a translation issues from  the original-not so much from  its life as from  its afterlife.  For  a translation  comes  later  than  the original, and since the important  works of world  literature  never find  their  chosen  translators  at  the  time  of  their  origin,  their translation  marks their  stage of continued  life. The  idea of life and afterlife in works of art should be regarded  with an entirely unmetaphorical   objectivity. Even  in  times  of  narrowly   preju\'ad diced  thought  there  was an inkling  that  life was not  limited  to organic  corporeality. But \fs22 it \fs20 cannot  be a matter  of  extending  its dominion  under  the feeble scepter  of the soul, as Fechner  tried to do, or, conversely, of basing its definition on the even less con\'ad clusive factors of animality, such as sensation, which characterize life only  occasionally. The  concept  of life is given  its due only \fs22 if \fs20 everything that has a history of its own, and is not merely the setting for  history, is credited  with  life. In the final analysis, the range  of life must be determined  by  history  rather  than  by  na\'ad ture,  least of  all by such  tenuous  factors  as sensation and  soul. The  philosopher's  task consists in  comprehending all of  natural life through  the more encompassing life of' history.  And indeed, is not  the continued  life of works  of art  far  easier to  recognize than the continual life of animal species? The  history of the great works  of art  tells us about  their antecedents,  their  realization  in the age of the artist, their potentially  eternal afterlife  in succeed\'ad ing generations. Where  this last manifests itself, \fs22 it \fs20 is called fame.\
\
\fi140533\li2960\ql
\f4\i Illumi1111tions\
\li2600\qj
\f7\i0\fs22 Translations that are more than transmissions of subject matter come into being when in the course of its survival a work  has reached the age of \fs20 its \fs22 fame. Contrary, therefore, to the claims of bad translators, such translations do not so much serve the work as owe their existence to it. The  life of the originals attains in them to its ever-renewed latest and most abundant flowering.\
\sl-240\slmult1\li2900\ql
Being a special and high form of life, this flowering is gov\'ad\
\sl240\slmult1\li2600\qj
erned by a special, high purposiveness. The relationship between life and  purposefulness, seemingly ob\\Tious  yet  almost beyond the grasp of the intellect, reveals itself only if the ultimate pur\'ad pose toward which all single functions tend is sought not in its own sphere but in a higher one. All purposeful manifestations of life, inc1uding their very purposiveness, in the final analysis have their end not \f5 in \f7 life, but in the expression of its nature, in the representation  of  \fs20 its  \fs22 significance. Translation  thus  ultimately serves the purpose of expressing the central reciprocal relation\'ad ship between languages. It cannot possibly reveal or establish this hidden relationship itself; but it can represent it by realizing it in embryonic or intensive form. This representation of  hidden significance through an embryonic attempt at making it  visible is of so singular a nature that it is rarely met with in the sphere of nonlinguistic life. This, in its analogies and symbols, can draw on other ways of suggesting meaning than intensive-that  is, an\'ad ticipative, intimating-realization. As for the posited central kin\'ad ship of languages, it is marked by a distinctive convergence. Lan\'ad guages are not strangers to one another, but  are, a priori  and apart from all historical relationships, interrelated \fs20 in  \fs22 what  they want to express.\
\fi289\sl216\slmult1\li2640With  this attempt at an explication our study appears to re\'ad join, after futile detours, the traditional theory  of trans1ation. \f5\fs20 If \f7\fs22 the kinship of languages is to  be demonstrated by  translations, how else can this be done but by conveying the form and mean\'ad\
\fi140533
ing of the original as accurately as possible? To  be sure, that theory would be hard put to define the nature of this accuracy and therefore could shed no light on what is important in a trans\'ad lation. Actually, however, the kinship of  languages is brought out by a translation far more profoundly and clearly than in the\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li3260\ql
\f4\i\fs20 The Task of the Translator\
\li2860\qc
\f7\i0 superficial and indefinable similarity  of two  works  of literature. To   grasp  the  genuine  relationship  between  an  original  and  a translation  requires an investigation  analogous to  the argumenta\'ad tion  by  which  a critique  of cognition  would  have to  prove  the impossibility of an image theory. There it is a matter of showing that in cognition  there could be no objectivity, not even a claim to it,  if it  dealt  with  images of  reality;  here  it  can  be demon\'ad strated  that no translation would  be possible if in its ultimate es\'ad sence  \fs22 it \fs20 strove  for  likeness to  the  original.  For  in  its afterlife\'ad which could not be called that if it were not a transformation  and a renewal of something  living-the original  undergoes  a change. Even words with fixed meaning can undergo a maturing  process. The  obvious  tendency  of  a writer's  literary  style  may \f5 in  \f7 time wither  away, only to give rise to immanent  tendencies in the lit\'ad erary  creation.  What  sounded fresh  once may sound  hackneyed later;  what  was  once  current   may  someday  sound  quaint.  To seek the essence of such changes, as well as the equally constant changes in meaning, in the subjectivity  of  posterity  rather  than in the very life of language and its works, would  mean-even al\'ad lowing  for  the crudest  psychologism-to confuse  the  root  cause of  a  thing  with  its  essence. More  pertinently, it  would  mean denying, by an impotence  of thought,  one of the most powerful and fruitful  historical processes. And even if one tried to turn an\
\li2920\qj
author's last stroke of the pen into the \f4\i\fs24 cqup de grace \f7\i0\fs20 of his work, this still would  not save that dead theory  of translation. For ;ust as the tenor  and the significance of the great works  of literature undergo a complete transformation  over the centuries, the mother\
tongue  of  the  translator  is transformed  as well. While  a  poees words  endure  in his own  language, even the greatest  translation is destined to become part of the growth  of its own language and eventually  to be absorbed by its renewal. Translation is so far removed  from  being the sterile equation  of  two  dead  languages that  of all 1iterary forms  it is the one  charged  with  the special mission of watching  over the maturing  process of the original language and the birth  pangs of its own.\
\sl-240\slmult1\li3240\ql
\f5 If \f7 the kinship of languages manifests itself in translations, this\
\li2920\qj
is not accomplished through  a vague alikeness between adaptation\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li3300\ql
\f4\i\fs18 13\
\
\fi22\li2620\f7\i0\fs20 and original. It stands to reason that kinship does not necessarily involve likeness. The concept  of kinship as used here is in accord with its more restricted common usage: in both cases, it cannot be defined  adequately  by  identity   of  origin,  although  \f5\fs22 in  \f7\fs20 defining the  more  restricted  usage the  concept  of  origin  remains indis\'ad pensable. Wherein  resides the relatedness of two languages, apart from  historical considerations? Certainly not in the similarity be\'ad tween  works  of  literature  or  words. Rather,  all suprahistorical kinship of languages rests in  the intention  underlying  each lan\'ad guage  as a whole-an intention,  however,  which  no  single lan\'ad guage  can  attain  by  itself  but  which  is realized  only  by  the totality  of  their  intentions supplementing  each  other:  pure  lan\'ad guage. While all individual elements of foreign languages-words, sentences, structure-are mutually  exclusive, these languages sup\'ad plement  one another  in  their  intentions.  Without  distinguishing the intended object from the mode of intention,  no firm grasp of this basic law of a philosophy of language can be achieved. The words \f4\i\fs24 Brot \f7\i0\fs20 and \f4\i\fs24 pain \f7\i0\fs20 "intend"  the same object, but  the modes of this intention  are not  the same. It is owing  to  these modes that the word  \f4\i\fs24 Brot \f7\i0\fs20 means something  different  to a German  than the\
\fi140533\sl-216\slmult1\li2640word \f4\i pain  \f7\i0 to a Frenchman, that these words are not interchange\'ad\
\fi5\sl240\slmult1\li2620\qj
able for them, that, in fact, they strive to exclude each other. As to the intended  object,  however, the two  words  mean the  ve y same thing. While the modes of intention in these two words are in conflict, intention  and object of intention  complement each of the two languages from which they are derived; there the object is complementary  to the intention. In the individual, unsupple... rnented languages, meaning is never found in relative indepen\'ad dence, as in individual words  or sentences; rather,  it is in a con\'ad stant  state  of  flux-until it  is able to  emerge  as  pure  language from  the  harmony  of \'b7all the  various modes of  intention.  Until then, it remains hidden in the languages. \f5 If, \f7 however,  these lan\'ad guages continue  to grow  in  this manner  until  the  end  of  their time, it is translation which catches fue on the eternal life of the works and the perpetual  renewal of language. Translation  keeps putting  the hallowed growth  of languages to  the  test: How  far\
\
\fi140533\li3000\ql
\f8 74\
\
\li3300\f4\i The Tark of the Trmrlatur\
\sl-240\slmult1\li2920\f7\i0\fs22 removed is their hidden meaning from revelation, how close can it be brought by the knowledge of this remoteness?\
\li3240This, to be sure, is to admit.that all translation is only a some\'ad\
\li2880\qc
what provisional way of coming to terms with the foreignness of\
\fi22\sl240\slmult1
languages. An instant and final rather than a temporary and pro\'ad visional solution of this foreignness remains out of the reach of mankind; at  any rate, it  eludes any  direct  attempt.  Indirectly, however, the growth  of religions ripens the hidden seed into a higher  development of  language. Although  translation,  unlike art,  cannot  claim permanence for  its  products,  its goal is un\'ad deniably a final, conclusive, decisive stage of aU linguistic crea\'ad tion. In translation the original rises into a higher and purer lin\'ad guistic air, as it were. It  cannot live there  permanently, to  he sure, and it certainly does not reach it in its entirety.  Yet, in a singularly impressive manner, at least it points the  way  to this region: the predestined, hitherto inaccessible realm of reconcilia\'ad tion and fulfillment \'b7of languages. The transfer can never be total, but what reaches this region is that element in a translation which goes beyond transmittal of subject matter. This  nucleus is best defined as the  element that  does not  lend itself to  translation. Even when all the surface content has been extracted and. trans\'ad mitted, the  primary concern of  the genuine translator  remains elusive. Unlike the words of the original, it is not translatable, be\'ad cause the relationship between content and language is quite dif\'ad ferent  in  the  original and  the  translation. While  content  and language form a certain unity in the original, like a fruit and its skin, the language of the translation envelops its content  like a royal robe with ample folds. For it signifies a more exalted lan\'ad guage than its own and thus remains unsuited to \fs20 its \fs22 content, over\'ad powering and alien. This disjunction prevents translation and at the same time makes it superfluous. For any translation of a work originating in a specific stage of linguistic history represents, in regard to a specific aspect of its content, translation into all other languages. Thus  translation, ironically, transplants the  original into a more definitive linguistic realm since it can no longer be displaced by  a secondary rendering. The  original can only be raised there anew and at other points of time. It is no mere coin-\
\
\fi140533\li3280\ql
\fs20 75\
\fi5\li2640\qj
cidence  that  the word  "ironic"  here  brings the  Romanticists to mind. They,  moe\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1
into  the life of literary  works which has its highest testimony in\
\fi5\sl240\slmult1\li2620translation.- To   be sure,  they  hardly  recognized  translation  in this sense, but devoted their entire attention  to criticism, another, \f5\fs22 if \f7\fs20 a lesser, factor in the continued life of literary  works. But even though  the Romanticists virtual1y ignored translation in their theoretical  writings,  their  own great  translations testify  to  their sense of the essential nature and the dignity  of this literary mode. There  is abundant evidence that this sense is not necessarily most pronounced  in a poet; in fact,  he may be least open  to it.  Not even literary  history  suggests  the  traditional  notion  that  great poets have been eminent translators and lesser poets have been in\'ad different  translators. A number  of  the  most eminent  ones, such as Luther,  Voss, and Schlegel, are incomparably  more important as translators than as creative  writers; some of the  great  among them, such as Holderlin  and Stefan George,  cannot  be simply subsumed as poets, and quite particularly  not if we consider them as translators. As translation is a mode of its own, the task of the translator, too, may be regarded as distinct and dearly differ\'ad entiated \{rom the task of  the poet.\
\fi306\li2640The  task of  the  translator  consists in  finding  that  intended effect  \f4\i [Intention] \f7\i0 upon the language into which  he is translating which  produces in it the echo of the  original. This  is a feature of  translation  which  basically differentiates  \fs24 it  \fs20 from  the  poet's work,  because the  effort  of  the  latter  is never  directed  at  the language  as such, at its  totality,  but  solely  and  immediately  at specific linguistic contextual aspects. Unlike a work  of literature, translation does not find itself in the center of the language forest but on the outside facing the wooded  ridge; it calls into it with\'ad out  entering,  aiming at that  single spot  where  the  echo  is able to give, in its own  language, the reverberation  of  the  work  in the alien one. Not  only  does the  aim of  translation  differ from that of a literary  work-it intends language as a whole, taking an individual  work  in an alien language  as a  point  of  departure\'ad but it is a different effort altogether. The  intention  of the poet is spontaneous, primary, graphic; that of the translator is derivative,\
\
\fi140533\li3260\ql
\f4\i\fs18 The  Tark of the Trtmrlator\
\li2900\qj
\f7\i0\fs22 ultimate, ideational. For the great motif of integrating many tongues into one true language is at work. This language is one in which the independent sentences, works of literature, critical judgments, will never communicate-for  they  remain dependent on translation; but in it the languages themselves, supplemented and reconciled in their mode of signification, harmonize. \f5 If \f7 there \fs24 is \fs22 such a thing as a language of truth,  the tensionless and even silent depository of the ultimate truth  which all thought strives for, then this language of truth is-the true language. And  this very language, whose divination and description is the only per\'ad fection a philosopher can hope for, \fs20 is \fs22 concealed \fs20 in \fs22 concentrated fashion in translations. There  is no muse of  philosophy, nor  is there  one of  translation. But despite the  claims of sentimental artists, these two  are not  banausic. For  there is a philosophical genius that  \fs24 is \fs22 characterized  by  \fs24 a \fs22 yearning  for  that  language which manifests itself in translations. \f4\i\fs20 "Les langaes imparfaites en cela que plusieurs, manque Ia  supreme: penser etant ecrire  sans aceessoires, ni chuchotement, mais tacite encore l'immortelle pa\'ad\
\sl264\slmult1
role, let  diversite, sur terre, des idiomes empeahe  personne de proferer  les  mots  qui,  sinon se  trouveraient,  par une  frappe\
\sl-240\slmult1
unique, elle-meme materiellemerit la verite." \f7\i0 \bullet  \f5\fs22 If \f7 what Mallarme\
\sl-216\slmult1
evokes here is fully fathomable to a philosopher, translation, with\
\sl-240\slmult1
its rudiments of such a language, is midway between poetry and doctrine. Its products are less sharply defined, but  it leaves no less of a mark on history.\
\fi294
\f5 If \f7 the task of the translator is viewed in this light, the roads toward a solution seem to be all the more obscure and impene\'ad trable. Indeed, the problem of ripening the seed of pure language\
\fi140533
in a translation seems to be insoluble, determinable in no solution.\
\sl240\slmult1
For is not the ground cut from under such a solution if the re\'ad production of the sense ceases to be decisive? Viewed negatively, this is actually the meaning of all the foregoing. The  traditional\
\
\fi249\sl216\slmult1\li2880\fs18 \bullet  "The  imperfection  of langua.ges consists in their  plurality, the supreme one is lacking: thinking  is writing  without  accessories or  even whispering, the immortal word  still .remains silent; the diversity of idioms on earth  pre\'ad vents everybody   from  uttering  the words  which  otherwise,  at  one  single stroke, would  materialize as truth."\
\
\fi140533\sl240\slmult1\li3260\ql
\f8\fs20 77\
\li2660\qj
\f7 concepts in any discussion of translations are fidelity and license\'ad the freedom  of faithful  reproduction and, \f5\fs24 in \f7\fs20 its service, .fidelity to the word.  These  ideas seem to  be no longer  serviceable to a theory  that  looks for  other  things  in  a translation  than  repro\'ad duction  of  meaning. To  be sure, traditional  usage makes  these terms appear as if in constant conflict with each other. What can fidelity really do for the rendering of meaning? Fidelity in the translation of individual words can almost never fully  reproduce\
\li2640\'b7 the meaning they have in the original. For sense in its poetic sig\'ad nificance is not limited to meaning, but derives from  the conno\'ad tations conveyed  by the word  chosen  to  express it. We  say  of words that they have emotional connotations.  A literal rendering of the syntax  completely  demolishes the theory  of reproduction of meaning and is a direct threat to comprehensibility. The  nine\'ad teenth  century  considered  Holderlin's  translations  of  Sophocles as monstrous examples of such literalness. FinaHy, it is self-evident how  greatly  fidelity \f5 in \f7 reproducing  the  fonn  impedes  the  ren\'ad dering of the sense. Thus  no case for literalness can be based on a desire to retain the meaning. Meaning is served far  better-and literature  and language far worse-by the unrestrained  license of bad translators.  Of  necessity, therefore,  the  demand  for  literal\'ad ness, whose  justification is obvious, whose  legitimate  ground  \f5\fs22 is \f7\fs20 quite obscure, must be understood in a more meaningful context. Fragments of a vessel which are to be glued together  must match one  another  in  the smallest details, although  they  need  not  be like one another. In the same way a translation, instead of re\'ad sembling the meaning of the original, must lovingly and in detail incorporate the original's mode of signification, thus making both the  orjginal  and  the  translation  recognizable  as fragments  of  a greater  language,  just as fragments are part  of a vessel. For  this very reason translation must in large measure refrain from  want\'ad ing to communicate  something, from  rendering  the sense, and in this the original is important  to it only insofar  as \fs22 it \fs20 has already relieved the  translator  and his translation of  the effort  of assem\'ad bling and expressing what is to be conveyed. In the realm of translation,  too, the words !" &px\f5 v\
\sl-240\slmult1\li2660\f7 was the word]  apply. On  the other  hand, as regards  the  mean-\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li3000\ql
78\
\
\li3300\f4\i\fs18 The Task of the Translator\
\li2940\qj
\f7\i0\fs20 ing, the language of a translation can-in fact,  must-let itself go, so that it gives voice to the \f4\i\fs22 intentio \f7\i0\fs20 of the original  not as repro\'ad duction  but as harmony, as a supplement to the language in which it expresses itself, as its own kind of \f4\i\fs22 intentio. \f7\i0\fs20 Therefore it is not the highest  praise of a translation, particularly  in the  age of its origin, to say that it reads as \fs22 if \fs20 it  had originally  been written  in that  language. Rather,  the significance of fidelity  as ensured  by literalness is that the work  reflects the great longing for linguistic complementation.   A  real  translation  is transparent;  it  does  not cover the original, does not block its light, but allows the pure language,  as  though   reinforced  by  its  own  medium,  to  shine upon the original all the more fully. This may be achieved, above all, by a literal rendering of the syntax which proves words rather than sentences to be the primary element of the translator. For if the sentence  is the \'b7wall before the language  of the  original, lit\'ad eralness is the arcade.\
\fi300
Fidelity  and freedom in translation have traditionally been regarded  as conflicting  tendencies. This  deeper  interpretation of the onapparently does not serve to reconcile  the  two;  in fact,\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1
\fs22 it \fs20 seems to deny the other all justification. For  what is meant by freedom  but that the rendering of the sense is no longer  to be re\'ad\
\fi11\sl240\slmult1\li2920garded as all-important?  Only if the sense of a linguistic creation may be equated  with  the information  it conveys  does some ulti\'ad mate, decisive element remain beyond all communication-quite close and yet infinitely remote, concealed or distinguishable, fragmented  or  powerful.  In all language and linguistic creations there  remains in  addition  to  what  can  be  conveyed  something that cannot  be communicated; depending on the context in which it appears, it is something that symbolizes or something  symbol\'ad ized. It is the former  only in the finite products  of language, the latter  in  the  evolving  of  the  languages  themselves.  And  that which seeks to represent, to produce itself in the evolving of languages, is that  very  nucleus of  pure  language. Though  con\'ad cealed and fragmentary, it is an active force  in life as the sym\'ad bolized  thing  itself, whereas it  inhabits  linguistic  creations  only in symbolized form. While  that  ultimate essence, pure language, in  the  various  tongues  is tied  only  to  linguistic  elements  and\
\
\fi140533\li3320\ql
\fs18 79\
\
\li2580\qc
\fs20 their changes, in linguistic creations it is weighted with a heavy, alien meaning. To  relieve it of this, to turn  the symbolizing into the symbolized, to regain pure language fully  formed in the lin\'ad guistic flux, is the  tremendous  and  only  capacity  of  translation. In this pure  language-which no longer  means or expresses any\'ad thing  but  is, as expressionless and creative  Word,  that  which  is meant in all languages-all  information, all sense, and all intention finally encounter  a stratum in which they  are destined to be ex\'ad tinguished. This  very  stratum  furnishes a new and higher  justi\'ad fication  for  free  translation;  this  justification  does  not  derive from  the sense of what is to be conveyed,  for  the emancipation from this sense is the task of fidelity. Rather, for the sake of pure language, a free  translation  bases the  test  on  its  own  language. It is the task of the translator to release in his own language that pure  language  which  is under  the  spell of  another,  to  liberate the  language  imprisoned  in  a  work  in  his .re-creation   of  that work. For  the sake of pure language he breaks through  decayed barriers  of  his  own  language.  Luther,   Voss,  Holderlin,   and George  have extended the boundaries of the German  language.\'ad And what  of the sense in its importance  for  the relationship be\'ad tween translation and original? A simile may help here. Just  as a tangent  touches  a circle lightly  and at  but  one point,  with  this touch  rather  than  with  the  point  setting  the  law  according  to which it is to continue on its straight  path  to infinity, a transla\'ad tion touches  the original \fs24 lightly \fs20 and only  at the infinitely  small point  of the sense, thereupon  pursuing its own course according to the laws of fidelity in the freedom  of linguistic flux. Without explicitly naming or substantiating it, Rudolf  Pannwitz  has char\'ad acterized  the  true significance of this freedom.  His observations are contained in \f4\i\fs22 Die Krisis der europaischen \fs20 J(ultur \f7\i0 and rank with\
\sl-240\slmult1
Goethe's  Notes  to the \f4\i Westostlicher Divan \f7\i0 as the best comment\
\sl-216\slmult1\li2600on the theory  of translation that has been published in Germany.\
\sl-240\slmult1\li2580Pannwitz  writes:  "Our  translations, even the  best ones, proceed\
\li2600from a wrong  premise. They  want to turn Hindi, Greek, English into German  instead of turning  German into Hindi, Greek,  Et,1g\'ad\
lish. Our  translators  have a far  greater  reverence  for  the  usage of their  own language than for  the spirit  of  the  foreign  works.\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li2980\ql
\f9\i\fs24 Ho\
\
\li3280\f4\fs20 The Task of \fs18 the \fs20 Trmslator\
\fi11\li2900\qj
\f7\i0 ... The  basic error  of the translator is that he preserves the state in which his own language happens to be instead of allowing his language to be powerfully affected by the foreign tongue. Par\'ad ticularly  when translating from a language very  remote from  his own  he must go  back to  the primal  elements of language  itself and  penetrate  to  the  point  where  work,  image, and  tone  con\'ad verge. He must expand and deepen his language by means of the foreign  language. It is not generally  realized to what  extent  this is  possible, to  what  extent  any  language  can  be  transfonned, how language differs from  language almost the way  dialect  dif\'ad fers from dialect; however, this last is true only if one takes lanM guage seriously enough,  not if one takes it lightly."\
\fi300\sl-240\slmult1\ql
The  extent  to which  a translation  manages to  be in keeping with  the  nature  of  this mode is determined  objectively  by  the\
\fi5\sl240\slmult1\li2880\qc
translatability  of the original. The  lower  the quality  and distinc\'ad tion of its language, the larger the extent  to which it is informa\'ad tion, the  less fertile  a field is it  for  translation,  until  the  utter preponderance  of content,  far from  being the lever for  a trans\'ad lation of distinctive  mode, renders it  impossible. The  higher  the level of a work,  the more  does it  remain  translatable even if its meaning is touched  upon only fleetingly. This, of course, applies to originals only. Translations,  on  the  other  hand, prove  to  be untranslatable not because of any inherent  difficulty, but  because of the looseness with which meaning attaches to them. Confirma\'ad tion of this as well as of every other  important  aspect is supplied by  Holderlin's  translations, particularly   those of  the  two  trage\'ad dies by Sophocles. In  them  the  harmony  of  the  languages is so profound   that  sense is touched  by  language  only  the  way  an aeolian harp is touched  by the wind. Holderlin's  translations are prototypes  of their kind; they are to even the most perfect  ren\'ad derings of their  texts as a prototype  is to a model. This  can  be demonstrated  by  comparing  Holderlin's  and Rudolf  Borchardt s translations of Pindar's  Third  Pythian  Ode. For  this very  reason Holderlin's  translations in particular  are subject  to the enormous danger  inherent  in all translations:  the  gates of a language  thus expanded and modified may slam shut  and enclose the translator with silence. Holderlin's translations from Sophocles were his last\
\
\fi140533\li3280\ql
\f4\i\fs16 81\
\
\li2980\fs20 Illuminatiom\
\li2620\qj
\f7\i0\fs22 work; in  them  meaning plunges from  abyss to  abyss until  it threatens to  become lost \f5\fs20 in \f7\fs22 the bottomless depths of  language. There is, however, a stop. It is vouchsafed to Holy Writ  alone, in which meaning has ceased to be the watershed for  the flow of language and the flow of revelation. Where a text is identical with truth  or dogma, where \fs24 it \f5\fs22 is \f7 supposed to be "the  true lan\'ad guage" in all its literalness and without the mediation of mean\'ad ing, this text is unconditionally translatable. In such case transla\'ad tions are called for  only because of the  plurality of languages. Just as, in the original, language and revelation are one without any tension, so the translation must be one with the original in the form of the interlinear version, in which literalness and free\'ad dom are united. For to some degree all great texts contain their potential translation between the lines; this \f5\fs20 is \f7\fs22 true to the highest degree of sacred writings. The interlinear version of the Scrip\'ad tures is the prototype or ideal of all translation.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\li3000\ql
\f9\i\fs24 B2\
\li3200\f7\i0\fs44 +\
\
\li3180\f4\i\fs34 'Jhe  Storyteller\'b7\
\
\li3200\fs24 Reflections on  the "Works of  7\\/ikolai \'a3eskov\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\li3180\f5\i0\fs16 I\
\
\fi300\li2880\qj
\f7\fs22 Familiar though his name may be to us, the storyteller in his living immediacy is by no means a present force. He has already become something remote from us and something that is getting even more distant. To  present someone like Leskov as a story\'ad teller does not mean bringing him closer to us hut, rather, in\'ad creasing our distance from him. Viewed from a certain distance, the great, simple outlines which define the storyteller stand out in him, or rather, they become visible in him, just as in a rock a human head or an animaPs body may appear to an observer at the proper distance and angle of vision. This distance and this angle of vision are prescribed for us by an experience which we may have almost every day. It teaches us that the\'b7art of storytelling is coming to an end. Less and less frequently do we encounter peo\'ad ple with the ability to tell a tale properly. More and more often there is embarrassment all around when the wish to hear a story is expressed. It is as if something that seemed inalienable to us, the securest among our  possessions, were  taken  from  us:  the ability to exchange experiences.\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1\li3200\ql
One reason for  this phenomenon is obvious: experience has\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li3000\f4\i\fs16 Illuminations\
\
\fi11\li2640\qj
\f7\i0\fs20 fallen in value. And it ]ooks as if it is continuing  to fall into bot\'ad tomlessness. Every glance at a newspaper demonstrates that it has reached  a new  low,  that  our  picture,  not  only  of  the  external world  but of the moral world  as well, overnight  has undergone changes  which  were  never  thought  possible. With   the  [First] World  War  a process began to become apparent  which  has not halted since then. Was  it  not  noticeable at  the  end of  the  war that  men returned  from  the battlefield grown  si1ent-not  richer, but  poorer  in  communicable  experience?  What  ten  years  later was poured  out in the flood of war  books was anything  but  ex\'ad perience that goes from mouth to mouth. And there was nothing remarkable  about  that.  For  never  has experience  been  contra\'ad dicted more thoroughly than strategic experience by tactical warfare, economic experience by inflation, bodily experience by mechanical warfare, moral experience by those in power. A gen\'ad eration that  had gone to school on a horse-drawn  streetcar  now stood under  the open sky in a countryside  in which nothing  re\'ad mained unchanged  but  the clouds, and beneath  these clouds, in a field of  force  of  destructive  torrents  and  explosions, was  the tiny, fragile human body.\
\
\
\fi140533\li2940\ql
\f5\fs16 I I\
\
\fi294\li2640\qj
\f7\fs20 Experience  which is passed on from  mouth  to mouth  is the source from which all storytellers  have drawn. And among those who have written  down the tales, it is the great ones whose writ\'ad ten version differs least from the speech of the many nameless storytellers.  Incidentally,  among  the  last  named  there  are  two groups which, to be sure, overlap in many ways. And the figure of the storyteller  gets its full corporeality  only for  the one who can picture them both. ''When someone goes on a trip, he has something to tell about," goes the German saying, and people imagine the storyteller  as someone who has come from afar. But they enjoy no less listening to the man who has stayed at home, making an honest living, and who knows the local tales and tra\'ad ditions. \fs22 If \fs20 one wants to picture these two groups through  their archaic representatives,  one is embodied in the  resident  tiller  of\
\fi140533\li2780\qc
the soil, and the other  in the trading seaman. Indeed, each sphere of life hast as it were, produced its own tribe of storytellers. Each of these tribes preserves some of its characteristics  centuries later. Thus,   among  nineteenth-century  German   storytellers,   writers like  Hebel  and  Gotthelf   stem from  the  first  tribe,  writers  like Sealsfield and  Gerstacker   from  the  second.  With   these  tribes, however, as stated  above, it is only a matter  of basic types. The actual extension of the realm of storytelling in its full  historical breadth  is inconceivable  without  the most intimate  interpenetra\'ad tion  of  these  two  archaic  types. Such  an  interpenetration  was achieved particularly  by the Middle Ages in their trade structure. The   resident  master  craftsman  and  the   traveling   journeymen worked  together  in the same rooms; and  every  master had been a traveling  journeyman  before he settled down  in 'his home town or somewhere  else. \f5\fs22 If \f7\fs20 peasants and seamen were  past masters of\
\fi5\li2820\qj
storytelling,  the artisan  class was its university.  In it  was  om\'ad bined  the  lore of faraway  places, such  as a much-traveled  man brings home, 'vith  the lore of the past, as it best reveals itself to natives of a place.\
\
\
\fi140533\li3080\qc
\f5\fs16 II I\
\
\fi294\li2860\qj
\f7\fs20 Leskov was at home in distant places as well as distant  times. He  was a member  of the Greek  Orthodox Church,  a man with genuine religious interests. But he was a no less sincere opponent of ecclesiastic bureaucracy. Since he was not  able to  get  along any  better  with secular officialdom, the official positions he held were  not of long duration.  Of all his posts, the one  he held for a long time as Russian representative of a big English firm was presumably the most useful one for  his writing. For  this firm he traveled through Russia, and these trips advanced his worldly wisdom as much as they did his knowledge  of conditions in Rus\'ad sia. In this way  he had an opportunity of  becoming  acquainted with  the  organization  of  the sects in  the  country. This  left  its mark on his works of fiction. In the Russian legends Leskov saw allies in  his fight  against  Orthodox   bureaucracy. There   are  a number  of  his legendary  tales whose  focus  is a righteous  man,\
\
\fi140533\li3200\qc
\f9\i\fs26 Bs\
\
\li3040\ql
\f4\fs20 lllumi'IUltions\
\li2680\qj
\f7\i0 seldom an ascetic, usually a simple, active  man who  becomes a saint apparently in the most natural way in the world. Mystical exaltation  is  not  Leskov's  forte.  Even  though   he  occasionally liked to indulge in the  miraculous, even in  piousness he  prefers to stick with a sturdy  nature. He sees the prototype in  the  man who finds his way  about  the  world  without  getting  too  deeply involved with it.\
\fi300
He  displayed a corresponding  attitude  in worldly  matters. It is in keeping with  this that  be began to write  late, at the age of twenty-nine. That   was  after  his  commercial  travels.  His  first printed work was entitled "Why Are Books Expensive in Kiev?" A number of other writings about the working  class, alcoholism, police  doctors,  and  unemployed  salesmen are  precursors  of  his works of fiction.\
\
\
\fi140533\li2980\ql
\f8\fs16 IV\
\
\fi300\li2700\qj
\f7\fs20 An orientation  toward  practical  interests  is  characteristic  of many  born storytellers.  More  pronouncedly  than in Leskov this trait  can be recognized, for  example, in Gotthelf, who  gave  his peasants agricultural  advice;  it  is found  in  Nodier,  who  con\'ad cerned  himself  with  the  perils  of  gas  light;  and  Hebel,  who slipped bits of scientific instruction for  his readers into his \f4\i\fs22 Schatz\'ad\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1\ql
\fs20 kiistlein, \f7\i0 is in  this line as well.  All  this points  to  the  nature  of\
\sl-216\slmult1
every real story. It contains, openly or covertly,  something  use\'ad\
\fi5\sl240\slmult1
fuL The  usefulness may, in one case, consist in a moral; in an\'ad other, in some practical advice; in a third, in a proverb or maxim. In  every  case the storyteller  is a man who  has counsel for  his readers. But \fs22 if \fs20 today  "having  counsel'is beginning  to  have  an old-fashioned  ring,  this \f5 is \f7 because  the  communicability   of  ex\'ad perience is decreasing. In consequence we have no counsel either for ourselves or for others. After  all, counsel is less a.n answer  to a  question  than  a  proposal  concerning   the  continuation   of  a story  which  is  just unfolding.  To  seek this  counsel one  would first have to be able to tell the story.  (Quite  apart from the fact that a man is receptive  to counsel only  to  the extent  that  he al\'ad lows  his situation  to speak.)  Counsel woven  into  the fabric  of\
\
\fi140533\li3080\f4\i 86\
\fi5\li2880\qj
\f7\i0 real life is wisdom. The  art of storytelling  is reaching its end be\'ad cause the epic side of truth,  wisdom, is dying out. This,  however, is a process that has been going on for  a long time. And nothing would  be more fatuous than to want to see in it merely a 'symp\'ad tom of decay," let alone a "modern''  symptom.  It is, rather,  only a concomitant  symptom  of the secular  productive  forces of  his\'ad tory,  a concomitant   that  has quite  gradually  removed  narrative from  the realm of living speech and at the same time is making it possible to see a new beauty in what  is vanishing.\
\
\
\fi140533\li3160\ql
\f5 v\
\
\li3180\f7 The  earli st\
\sl-240\slmult1\li2840\qc
of storytelling is the rise of the novel at the  beginning  of mod\'ad\
\sl240\slmult1\li2860ern  times. What   distinguishes the  novel  from   the  story   (and from  the epic in the narrower  sense)  is its essential dependence on  the  book. The  dissemination of  the  novel  became  possible only  with  the  invention  of  printing.  What   can  be  handed  on orally,  the wealth  of the epic, is of  a different  kind from  what constitutes  the  stock  in  trade of  the  novel.  What  differentiates the novel from  all other forms of prose literature-the fairy  tale, the legend, even the  novella-is  that  it  neither  comes from  oral tradition  nor goes into  it. This distinguishes it from  storytelling in particular. The  storyteller  takes what  he tells from  experience\
\fi11\li2840-his own  or. that  reported  by others. And  he in  tum  makes it the experience of those who are listening to his tale. The  novelist has isolated himself. The  birthplace  of  the  novel is the  solitary individual,  who  is no  longer  able  to  express  himself by  giving examples of his most important  concerns, is himself uncounseled, and cannot  counsel others. To  write  a novel means to carry  the incommensurable  to  extremes in  the  representation   of  human life. In the midst of life's fullness, and through  the representation of  this fullness, the  novel gives evidence  of  the  profound  per\'ad plexity of the living. Even the first great  book of the genre, \f4\i\fs22 Don\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1\li2820Quixote, \f7\i0\fs20 teaches  how  the  spiritual  greatness,  the  boldness, the\
\sl-216\slmult1
helpfulness of one of the noblest of men, Don Quixote,  are com\'ad\
\sl240\slmult1
pletely  devoid of counsel and do not  contain  the slightest scin-\
\fi5\li2680\qj
tilla of wisdom. \f5\fs24 If \f7\fs20 now and then, in the course of the centuries, efforts have been made-most effectively, perhaps, in \f4\i Wilhelm Meisters Wanderjahre-to \f7\i0 implant instruction  in the  novel, these attempts  have always amounted  to  a modification  of  the  novel form. The  \f4\i\fs22 Bildungsroman, \f7\i0\fs20 on the other  hand, does not deviate in any  way  from  the  basic structure of  the  novel. By integrating the social process with  the development  of  a person, it bestows the most frangible  justification on the order  determining  it. The legitimacy it provides stands in direct  opposition  to  reality. Par\'ad ticularly  in the \f4\i\fs22 Bildungsroman, \f7\i0\fs20 it  is this inadequacy  that  is ac\'ad tualized.\
\
\
\fi140533\li2960\ql
\f8\fs16 VI\
\
\fi328\li2660\qj
\f7\fs20 One must imagine the transformation  of epic forms occurring in rhythms comparable to those of the change that has come over the earth's surface \f5\fs22 in \f7\fs20 the course of thousands of centuries. Hardly any  other   forms  of  human  communication   have  taken  shape more slowly, been lost more slowly. It took the novel, whose beginnings go back to antiquity, hundreds of years before \fs22 it \fs20 en\'ad countered in the evolving middle class those elements which were favorable to its flowering. With  the appearance of these elements, storytelling   began quite  slowly  to  recede  into  the  archaic;  in many  ways, it is true,  it  took  hold  of  the  new  material, but  it was not  really determined  by it. On  the  other  hand, we recog\'ad nize that with the full control  of the middle class, which has the press as one of its most important  instruments  in fully developed capitalism, there  emerges  a form  of  communication  which,  no matter  how far  back its origin  may lie, never  before influenced the epic form  in a decisive way. But now it  does exert such an influence. And  it  turns  out  that  it  confronts storytelling  as no less of  a stranger  than  did  the  novel,  but  in  a more  menacing way, and that it also brings about a crisis in the noveL This  new fonn  of communication  is information.\
\fi311\sl216\slmult1\li2640Villemessant, the founder  of \f4\i Le Figaro, \f7\i0 characterized  the na\'ad ture of information in a famous formulation. "To my readers,, he used to sayt "an attic fire in the Latin Quarter is more important\
\
\fi140533\sl240\slmult1\li3020\ql
\f9\i 88\
\
\fi5\li2900\qj
\f7\i0 than a revolution  in Madrid." This  makes strikingly  clear that  it is no longer  intelligence  coming from afar,  but  the information which supplies a handle for what is nearest that gets the readiest hearing. The  intelligence  that came from  afar-whether the spa\'ad tial kind from  foreign  countries  or  the  temporal  kind  of  tradi\'ad tion-possessed   an authority  which  gave it  validity,  even  when it  was  not  subject   to  verification.  Information \f5\fs10 1 \f7\fs20 however,  lays claim to  prompt  verifiability. The  prime  requirement  is that  it appear "understandable in itself." Often  it is no more exact than the intelligence of earlier centuries was. But while the latter  was inclined to borrow  from the miraculous, it is indispensable for information  to sound  plausible. Because of this it proves incom\'ad patible with  the spirit  of storytelling. If  the  art  of storytelling has become rare, the dissemination of information  has had a de\'ad cisive share in this state of affairs.\
\fi306
Every  morning  brings us the news of  the globe, and yet  we are  poor  in  noteworthy stories. This  is  because no  event  any longer comes to us without  already being shot through  with  ex\'ad planation. In other wordsf by now almost nothing that happens benefits storytelling; almost everything  benefits information.  Ac\'ad tually, it is half the art of storytelling  to keep a story  free  from exp]anation as one reproduces it. Leskov is a master at this (com\'ad pare pieces like "The  Deception" and "The White  Eagle''). The most extraordinary things, marvelous things, are related with  the greatest   accuracy,   but   the   psychological   connection    of   the events is not forced on the reader. It is left up to him to interpret things  the  way   he  understands  them,  and  thus  the  narrative achieves an amplitude  that information  lacks.\
\
\
\fi140533\li3180\ql
\fs16 VI I\
\
\fi306\sl216\slmult1\li2900\qj
\fs20 Leskov was grounded  in the classics. The  first storyteller  of the Greeks was Herodotus. In the fourteenth chapter of the third book of  his \f4\i Histories \f7\i0 there is a story  from  which  much  can be learned. It  deals with  Psammenitus.\
\fi300\sl-240\slmult1\li2880When the Egyptian king Psammenitus had been beaten and captured  by  the Persian king Cambyses, Cambyses was bent  on\
\
\fi140533\sl240\slmult1\li3260\ql
\f9\i\fs22 Bg\
\
\fi22\li2660\qj
\f7\i0\fs20 humbling his prisoner. He  gave orders  to  place Psammenitus on the  road  along  which  the  Persian  triumphal  procession  was  to pass. And  he further  arranged  that  the  prisoner  should  see  his daughter  pass by as a maid going to  the well with  her  pitcher. While  all the Egyptians were lamenting and bewailing this spec\'ad tacle,  Psammenitus stood  alone, mute  and  motionless,  his eyes fixed on the ground; and when presently he saw his son, who was being taken along in the procession to be executed, he likewise remained  unmoved. But when  afterwards  he recognized  one of his servants, an old, impoverished man, in the ranks of the  pris\'ad oners, he beat his fists against his head and gave all the signs of deepest mourning.\
\fi306
From this story it may be seen what  the nature of true story\'ad telling is. The  value of information  does not survive the moment in which it was new. It lives only at that  moment; it has to sur\'ad render  to it completely and explain itself to it without  losing any time. A story  is different. It does not  expend itself. It  preserves and concentrates  its strength  and is capable of  releasing it even after a long time. Thus Montaigne referred  to this Egyptian  king and asked himself why  he mourned only  when  he caught  sight of  his servant. Montaigne answers: "Since  he was already  over\'ad full  of  grief,  it  took  only  the smallest increase  for  \fs24 it  \fs20 to  burst through  its  dams." Thus  Montaigne.  But  one  could  also  say: The  king is not moved by the fate of those of royal  blood, for it is his own fate. Or: We are moved by much on the stage that does not move us in real life; to the king, this servant is only an actor. Or:  Great  grief is pent up and breaks forth  only  with re\'ad laxation. Seeing this servant was the relaxation. Herodotus offers no explanations. His report  is the driest. That  \fs22 is \fs20 why  this story from ancient Egypt  is still capable after thousands of years of arousing astonishment and thoughtfulness.  It resembles the seeds of grain which have lain for centuries in the chambers of the pyramids shut  up  air-tight  and  have retained  their  germinative power to this day.\
\
\
\
\
\
\fi140533\li3040\ql
\f4\i\fs16 go\
\
\li3180\f7\i0 VIII\
\
\fi306\li2860\qj
\fs22 There is nothing that commends a story to memory more ef\'ad fectively than that chaste compactness which precludes psycho\'ad logical analysis. And the more natural the process by which the storyteller  forgoes  psychological shading, the  greater  becomes the story's claim to a place \f5 in \f7 the memory of  the listener, the more completely  is it  integrated into  his own  experience, the greater will be his inclination to repeat it to someone else som \'ad day, sooner or later. This  process of assimilation, which  takes place in depth, requires a state of relaxation which is becoming rarer and rarer. \f5 If \f7 sleep \f5\fs20 is \f7\fs22 the apogee of physical relaxation, bore\'ad dom is the apogee of mental relaxation. Boredom is the  dream bird that hatches the egg of experience. A rustling in the leaves drives him away. His nesting places-the  activities that  are in\'ad timately  associated with  boredom-are   already  extinct  in  the cities and are declining in the country as well. With  this the gift for  listening is lost and the community  of listeners disappears. For storytelling is always the art  of repeating stories, and  this art is lost when the stories are no longer retained. It is lost be\'ad cause there is no more weaving and spinning to go on while they are being listened to. The  more self-forgetful the listener is, the more deeply is what  he listens to impressed upon his memory. When the rhythm of work has seized him; he listens to the tales in such a way that the gift of retelling them comes to him all by itself. This, then, is the nature of the web in which the gift of storytelling is cradled. This is how today it is becoming unrav\'ad eled at all its ends after being woven thousands of years ago in the ambience of the oldest forms of craftsmanship.\
\
\
\fi140533\li3180\ql
\f8\fs20 IX\
\
\fi306\sl216\slmult1\li2880\qj
\f7\fs22 The storytelling that thrives for a long time in the milieu of work-the rural, the maritime, and the urban-is  itself an artisan form of communication, as it were. It  does not aim to convey the pure essence of the thing, like information or a report. It sinks the thing into the life of the storyteller, in order to bring it out\
\
\fi22\sl240\slmult1\li2680of him again. Thus traces of the storyteller cling to the story the way the handprints of the potter cling to the clay vessel. Story\'ad tellers tend to begin their story with a presentation of the cir\'ad cumstances in  which they  themselves have learned what  is to follow, unless they simply pass it  off as their own experience. Leskov begins his "Deception" with  the description of a train trip on which he supposedly heard from a fellow passenger the events which he then goes on to relate; or he thinks of Dostoev\'ad sky's funeral, where he sets his acquaintance with the heroine of his story "A Propos of the Kreutzer Sonata,; or he evokes a gath\'ad ering of a reading circle in which we are told the events that he reproduces for us in his "Interesting Men." Thus  his tracks are frequently evident in his narratives, if not as those of the one who experienced itthen as those of the one who reports it.\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1\li2960\ql
This  craftsmanship, storytelling, was actually regarded as a\
\fi11\sl240\slmult1\li2660\qj
craft by Leskov himself. "Writing,"  he says in one of his letters, \f4\i\fs24 "is \f7\i0\fs22 to me no liberal art, but a craft." It cannot come as a surprise that he felt bonds with cra.ftsmanship, but faced industrial tech\'ad nology as a stranger. Tolstoy, who must have understood this, occasionally touches this nerve of  Leskov's storytelling  talent when he calls him the first man "who pointed out the inadequacy of economic progress.\bullet ..  It  is strange that  Dostoevsky is so widely read.\bullet \bullet . But I simply cannot comprehend why  Leskov is not read. He is a truthful writer." In his artful and high-spirited story  "The  Steel Flea,, which is midway between legend and farce, Leskov glorifies native craftsmanship through  the silver\'ad smiths of Tula. Their masterpiece, the steel flea, is seen by Peter the  Great  and  convinces him .that  the  Russians need  not  be ashamed before the English.\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1\li2980\ql
The  intellectual picture of the atmosphere of craftsmanship\
\li2680\qj
from  which  the  storyteller   comes  has  perhaps  never  been\
sketched in such a significant way as by Paul Valery. "He speaks of the perfect things in nature, flawless pearls, full-bodied, ma\'ad\
tured wines, truly \'b7developed creatures, and calls them 'the  pre\'ad\
cious product of a long chain of causes similar to one another.'"\
\fi5
The accumulati<:m of such causes has its temporal limit only at perfection. "This  patient process of Nature," Vah ry\
\
\fi140533\sl240\slmult1\li3040\ql
\f4\i\fs12 1\}2\
\fi5\li2880\qj
\f7\i0\fs22 "was  once imitated  by  men. Miniatures, ivory  carvings, elab\'ad orated to the point of greatest perfection, stones that are perfect in polish and engraving, lacquer work  or  paintings in which a series of thin, transparent layers are placed one on top  of  the other-all these products of sustained, sacrificing effort are vani_sh\'ad ing, and the time \f5\fs20 is \f7\fs22 past in which time did not matter. Modern man no longer works at what cannot be abbreviated."\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1\li3200\ql
In point of fact, he has succeeded in abbreviating even story\'ad\
\li2900\qj
telling. We  have witnessed the evolution of  the "short story,"\
\sl240\slmult1
which has removed itself from oral tradition and no longer per\'ad mits that slow piling one on top of the other of thin, transparent layers which constitutes the most appropriate picture of the way in which the perfect narrative is revealed through  the layers of a variety of retellings.\
\
\
\li3180\ql
\fs16 X\
\
\fi294\li2900\qj
\fs22 Valery concludes his observations with this sentence: "It  is almost as if the decline of the idea of eternity coincided with the increasing aversion to sustained effort/'  The idea of eternity has ever had \fs20 its \fs22 strongest source in death. \f5 If \f7 this idea declines, so we reason, the face of death must have changed. It  turns out  that this change is identical with the one that has diminished the com\'ad municability of experience to the same extent as the art of story\'ad telling has declined.\
\fi306\sl216\slmult1
It has been observable for a number of centuries how in the general consciousness the thought of death has declined in om\'ad nipresence and vividness. In its last stages this process is accel\'ad erated. And in the course of the nineteenth century  bourgeois society has, by means of hygienic and social, private and public institutions, realized a secondary effect which may have been \fs20 its \fs22 subconscious main purpose: to  make it  possible for  people to avoid the sight of the dying. Dying  was once a public process in the life of the individual and a most exemplary one; think of the medieval pictures in which the deathbed has turned  into  a throne toward  which  the  people press through  the  wide-open doors of the death house. In the course of modern rimes dying\
\
\fi140533\sl240\slmult1\li3280\ql
\f4\i\fs18 93\
\fi11\li2640\qj
\f7\i0\fs20 has been pushed further  and further  out of the perceptual  world of the living. There  used to be no house, hardly a room, in which someone had not once died. (The  Middle Ages also felt spatially what makes that inscription on a sun dial of Ibiza, \f4\i Ultima multis \f7\i0 [the last day for  many], significant as the temper of the  times.) Today people live in  rooms  that  have never  been touched  by death, dry  dwellers of eternity,  and when  their  end approaches they  are stowed  away in sanatoria or hospitals by their  heirs. It \fs22 is, \fs20 however,  characteristic  that  not  only  \fs22 a \fs20 man's knowledge  or wisdom, but above all his real life-and this \fs22 is \fs20 the \fs22 stuff \fs20 that stories are made of-first assumes transmissible form  at  the moment  of his death. Just  as a sequence of images is set in motion  inside a man as his life comes to an end-unfolding the  views of  himself under  which he has encountered  himself without  being aware of it-suddenly  in   his  expressions  and   looks   the   unforgettable emerges and imparts to everything that concerned him that au\'ad thority  which even the poorest wretch  in dying  possesses for  the living around  him. This  authority  is at  the  very  source  of  the story.\
\
\
\fi140533\li2940\ql
\fs16 XI\
\
\fi300\li2640\qj
\fs20 Death  is the  sanction  of  everything  that  the storyteller can tell. He  has borrowed  his authority  from  death. In other  words, it is natural  history  to  which  his stories refer  back. This  is ex\'ad pressed in  exemplary  form  in one of  the  most  beautiful  stories we have by the incomparable Johann Peter  Hebel. It is found  in the \f4\i Schatzkiistlein des rheinischen Hausfreundes, \f7\i0 is entitled  "Un.. expected Reunion," and begins with the betrothal of a young  lad who works in the mines of Falun. On the eve of his wedding  he dies a miner's death at the bottom of his tunnel. His bride  keeps faith with  him after  his death, and she lives long enough  to be\'ad come a wizened old woman; one day a body is brought  up from the  abandoned  tunnel  which,  saturated   with  iron  vitriol,   has escaped decay, and she recognizes her  betrothed.  After  this re\'ad union  she  too  is called  away  by  death.  When   Hebel,  in  the course of this story, was confronted  with the necessity of making\
\
\fi140533\li3000\ql
\f4\i\fs16 94\
\
\li3280\fs20 The StoryteJler\
\fi11\li2900\f7\i0\fs22 this long period of years graphic, he did so in the foll wing tences: "In the meantime the city of Lisbon was destroyed by an earthquake, and the Seven Years' War  came and went, and Em\'ad peror  Francis I died, and the Jesuit Order  was abolished, and Poland was partitioned, and Empress Maria Theresa  died, and Struensee was executed. America became independent, and the united French  and Spanish forces were  unable to  capture  Gi\'ad braltar. The  Turks  locked up  General Stein  in  the  Veteraner Cave in Hungary, and Emperor Joseph died also. King Gustavus of Sweden conquered Russian Finland, and the French Revolu\'ad tion and the long war began, and Emperor  Leopold II went  to his grave too. Napoleon captured Prussia, and the English bom\'ad barded Copenhagen, and the peasants sowed and harvested. The millers ground,  the smiths hammered, and  the  miners dug for veins of ore in their underground workshops. But when in \fs20 1809 \fs22 the miners at Falun ..."\
\fi300\sl-240\slmult1\qj
Never has a storyteller embedded his report deeper in natural history than Hebel manages to  do in this chronology. Read it\
\fi5
carefully. Death appears in it  with  the same regularity  as the Reaper does in  the processions that  pass around  the  cathedral clock at noon.\
\
\
\fi140533\sl240\slmult1\li3180\ql
\fs16 X I I\
\
\fi300\sl216\slmult1\li2880\qj
\fs22 Any examination of a given epic form is concerned with the relationship of this form to historiography. In fact, one may go even further  and raise the question whether  historiography does not constitute the common ground of all forms of the epic. Then written  history would  be in the same relationship to  the  epic forms as white light is to the colors of the spectrum. However this may be, among all forms of the epic there is not one whose incidence in the pure, colorless light of written  history is more certain  than the chronicle. And  in the  broad  spectrum of  the chronicle the ways in which a story can be told are graduated like shadings of one and the same color. The chronicler is the history\'ad teller. \f5\fs20 If \f7\fs22 we think back to the passage from Hebel, which has the tone of a chronicle throughout, it will take no effort to gauge\
\
\fi140533\sl240\slmult1\li3260\ql
\f9\i 95\
\
\li3040\f4\fs18 IJlumi'lUltions\
\
\fi11\sl-240\slmult1\li2680\qj
\f7\i0\fs20 the difference  between  the writer  of  history,  the  historian, and the teller of it, the chronicler. The  historian is bound  to explain \f4\i\fs24 in \f7\i0\fs20 one way or another the happenings with which he deals; under no circumstances can he content  himself with displaying them as models of the course of the world. But this is precisely what the\
\fi17\sl240\slmult1\li2660chronicler  does, especially in his classical representatives, the chroniclers  of  the Middle Ages, the  precursors  of the  historians of today. By basing their  historical tales on a divine plan of sal\'ad vation-an inscrutable  one-they have from  the  very  start  lifted the  burden  of demonstrable  explanation  from  their  own  shoul\'ad ders. Its place is taken by interpretation,  which is not concerned with  an accurate  concatenation  of  definite events, but  with  the way  these are  embedded in  the great  inscrutable  course  of  the world.\
\fi311\li2640Whether this course is eschatologically determined or is a natural one makes no difference. In the storyteller  the chronicler \f4\i is  \f7\i0 preserved in changed form, secularized, as it were. Leskov is among  those  whose  work  displays this  with  particular  clarity. Both the chronicler  with his eschatological orientation  and the storyteller   with  his profane  outlook  are  so  represented  in  his works  that  in a\'b7 number  of  his stories it  can  hardly  be decided whether  the web in which they appear is the golden fabric  of a religious view of the course of things, or the multicolored fabric of a worldly  view.\
\fi306
Consider  the story  "The Alexandrite,"  which  transports  the reader into "that  old time when the stones in  the womb  of  the earth and the planets at celestial heights were still concerned with the fate of men, and not today when both in the heavens and be\'ad neath the earth  everything  has grown  indifferent  to the fates of the sons of men and no voice speaks to them from anywhere; let alone does their  bidding. None of the undiscovered  planets play any  part  in  horoscopes  any  more, and  there  are  a lot  of  new stones, all measured and weighed and examined for  their specific weight and their density,  but  they  no longer  proclaim anything to us, nor do they bring  us any benefit. Their  time for speaking with men is past."\
\fi140533\li2940\ql
As is evident, it is hardly  possible unambiguously  to charac-\
\
\fi17\li2880\qj
\fs22 terize the course of the world that is illustrated in this story  of Leskov's. Is it  determined  eschatologically or  naturalistically? The only certain thing is that in its very nature it is by definition outside all real  historical  categories. Leskov  tells us that  the epoch in which man could believe himself to be in harmony with nature has expired. Schiller called this epoch \fs20 in \fs22 the history of the world the period of na:ive poetry. The storyteller keeps faith with it, and his eyes do not stray from  that  dial in front  of which there moves the procession of creatures of which, depending on circumstances, Death is either  the leader or  the last wretched straggler.\
\
\
\fi140533\li3160\ql
\fs16 X I I I\
\
\fi300\sl216\slmult1\li2880\qj
\fs22 It has seldom been realized that the listener's nai:ve relation\'ad ship to the storyteller is controlled by  his interest in retaining what he is told. The cardinal point for the unaffected listener is to  assure himself of  the  possibility of  reproducing  the  story. Memory is the epic faculty  \f4\i\fs24 par  excellence. \f7\i0\fs22 Only by virtue of a comprehensive memory can epic writing  absorb the course of events on the one hand and, with the passing of these, make its peace with the power of death on the other. It is not surprising\
\fi5\sl240\slmult1\li2860that to a simple man _.of  the people, such as Leskov once invented, the Czar, the head of the sphere in which his stories take place, has the most encyclopedic memory at his command. "Our  Em\'ad peror," he says, "and his entire family have indeed a most aston\'ad ishing memory."\
\fi306\sl216\slmult1
Mnemosyne, the rememberer, was the  Muse of the epic art among the Greeks. This name takes the observer back to a part\'ad ing of the ways in world history. For \f5\fs20 if \f7\fs22 the record kept by mem\'ad ory-historiography-constitutes the creative matrix of the var\'ad ious epic forms  (as great  prose is the  creative  matrix of  the varjous metrical forms), its oldest form,  the epic, by virtue  of being a kind of common denominator includes the story and the novel. When in the course of centuries the novel began to emerge from the womb of the epic, it turned out  that in the novel the element of the epic mind that is derived from the Muse-that is,\
\
\fi140533\sl240\slmult1\li3220\ql
\fs18 97\
\
\li3160\f4\i\fs20 Illuminations\
\
\fi5\sl-240\slmult1\li2780\qj
\f7\i0 memory-manifests itself in a fonn  quite different from  the way it manifests itself in the story.\
\fi0\sl240\slmult1\li2740\f4\i\fs24 Memory  \f7\i0\fs20 creates  the  chain  of  tradition  which  passes a  hap\'ad pening on from generation to generation. It is the Muse-derived element of  the  epic art  in  a broader  sense and encompasses its varieties. In the first place among these is the one practiced  by the storyteller.  It starts  the web which  all stories together  form in the end. One ties on to the next, as the great storytellers,  par\'ad ticuhtrly  the Oriental  ones, have always readily shown. In  each of them there is a Scheherazade who thinks of a fresh story when\'ad ever her tale comes to a stop. This is epic remembrance  and the\
\fi34\li2720Muse-inspired element  of  the  narrative.  But  this should  be  set against another  principle, also a Muse-derived element in a nar\'ad rower  sense, which  as an  element  of  the  novel  in  its  earliest form-that is, in  the  epic-lies  concealed,  still  undifferentiated from  the similatly  derived  element of the  story.  It can, at  any rate, occasionally be divined in the epics, particularly  at moments of solemnity  in the  Homeric  epics, as in  the invocations to  the Muse at their beginning. What  announces itself in these passages is the  perpetuating   remembrance  of  the  novelist  as contrasted with the short-lived  reminiscences of the storyteller. The  first is dedicated  to  \f4\i\fs24 one \f7\i0\fs20 hero,  \f4\i\fs24 one \f7\i0\fs20 odyssey, \f4\i\fs24 one \f7\i0\fs20 battle;  the second,  to\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1\li2700\f4\i\fs24 many  \f7\i0\fs20 diffuse occurrences.  It  is, in  other  words,  \f4\i\fs24 remembrance\
\sl-216\slmult1
\f7\i0\fs20 which,  as the  Muse-derived  element  of  the  novel, is added  to\
\sl-240\slmult1
reminiscence, the corresponding  element of the story,  the  unity of  their  origin  \fs22 irt \fs20 memory  having disappeared with  the  decline of the epic.\
\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li2980\ql
\f8\fs16 XIV\
\
\fi300\li2700\qj
\f7\fs20 uNo  one," Pascal once said, "dies so poor  that  he does not leave something  behind."  Surely  it  is the  same with  memories too-although these do not always find an heir. The  novelist takes charge  of  this  bequest,  and  seldom  without   profound   melan\'ad choly. For what Arnold Bennett says about a dead woman in one of his novels-that she had had almost nothing  in the way of real life-is usually true of the sum total of the estate which the novel-\
\fi5\li2880ist administers. Regarding  this aspect of the  matter  we owe  the most  important  elucidation  to  Georg  Lukacs,  who  sees in  the novel "the  form  of  transcendental  homelessness." According  to Lukacs, the novel is at the same time the only art form which includes time among its constitutive  principles.\
\fi294\li2900"Time," \'b7he says in  his \f4\i Theory  of the Novel, \f7\i0 "can  become constitutive  only when connection  with the transcendental  home has been lost. Only  in the novel are meaning and life, and thus\
\fi5\li2880the essential and the temporal, separated; one can almost say that the whole inner action of a novel is nothing  else but a struggle against the power of time. . . . And from  this . . . arise t\}le gen\'ad uinely epic experiences of time: hope and memory.... Only  in the novel . . . does there occur a creative memory  which  trans\'ad fixes the object and transforms it.\bullet .. The  duality  of inwardness and outside world  can  here be overcome  for  the  subject  'only' when he sees the ... unity of his entire  life ... out  of the past life-stream  which  is compressed  \fs22 in \fs20 memory.  . . \bullet    The  insight which  grasps  this  unity  \bullet    \bullet   \bullet    becomes  the  divinatory-intuitive grasping  of  the  unattained  and therefore  inexpressible  meaning of life."\
\fi294\li2900The  "meaning  of  life" is really  the  center  about  which  the novel moves. But the quest for it is no more than  the initial ex\'ad pression of  perplexity  with  which  its reader  sees himself living this  written  life. Here  "meaning  of  life"-there "moral  of  the story": with  these slogans novel and story  confront each other. and  from  them  the  totally  different  historical  co-ordinates  of these art forms may be discerned. \f5 If \f4\i Don Quixote \f7\i0 is the earliest perfect  specimen of the  novel, its latest exemplar is perhaps the\
\fi140533\li2880\f4\i Education sentimenta.le.\
\sl-216\slmult1\li3200\ql
\f7\i0 In the final words of the last-named novel, the meaning which\
\fi11\sl240\slmult1\li2880\qj
the  bourgeois age found  in its behavior  at  the  beginning  of  its decline has settled like sediment in the cup  of life. Frederic  and Deslauriers, the boyhood friends, think back to their youthful friendship.  This  little  incident  then  occurred:  one  day  they showed  up  in  the  bordello  of  their  home  town,  stealthily  and timidly, doing  nothing  but  presenting the  \f4\i patronne \f7\i0 with  a bou\'ad quet  of flowers  which  they  had  picked  in  their  own  gardens.\
\
\fi140533\li3040\ql
\f4\i Illuminatiom\
\li2680\qj
\f7\i0 "This  story  was still discussed three  years later.  And  now they told it to each other in detail, each supplementing the recollection of the other. 'That may have been,' said Frederic  when they  had\
\li2660:finished, 'the :finest thing in our lives.' 'Yes, you  may be right/\
\sl-240\slmult1\li2680said Deslauriers, 'that  was perhaps the :finest thing in our lives.' ,\
\fi300\sl240\slmult1\li2660With  such an insight the novel reaches an end which is more proper  to it, in a stricter sense, than to any story. Actually there is no story for which the question as to how it continued would not  be legitimate. The  novelist, on the other  hand, cannot  hope to take the smallest step beyond that limit at which he invites the reader to a divinatory  realization of the meaning of life by writ\'ad ing "Finis."\
\
\
\fi140533\li2960\ql
\fs16 XV\
\
\fi311\li2660\qj
\fs20 A man listening to a story  is in  the  company  of  the story\'ad teller; even a man reading one shares this companionship. The reader of a novel, however, is isolated, more so than any other reader.  (For  even  the  reader  of a  poem  is ready  to  utter  the words, for the benefit of the listener.) In this solitude of his, the reader  of  a novel seizes upon  his material  more  jealously than anyone else. He \f5 is \f7 ready  to  make it completely  his own, to  de\'ad vour it, as \fs22 it \fs20 were. Indeed, he destroyst he swallows .up the mate\'ad rial as the fire devours logs in the fireplace. The  suspense which penneates  the novel is very much like the draft  which stimulates the .flame \f5\fs22 in \f7\fs20 the :fireplace and enlivens its play.\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1\li2960\ql
It is a dry material on which the burning interest of the reader\
\fi5\sl240\slmult1\li2660\qj
feeds. "A  man who  dies at  the  age of thirty-five," said Moritz Heimann once, "is at every point of his life a man who dies at the age of thirty-five." Nothing  is more dubious than this sentence\'ad but for  the sole reason that  the tense is wrong.  A man-so says the  truth  that  was meant here-who died at  thirty-five  will ap\'ad pear to \f4\i\fs22 remembrance \f7\i0\fs20 at every point in his life as a man who dies at the age of thirty-five. In other words, the statement that makes no sense for  real life becomes indisputable for  remembered  life. The  nature of the character  in a novel cannot  be presented any better  than is done in this statement, which says that the "mean-\
\
\fi140533\li3040\ql
\f4\i\fs12 100\
\li2940\qj
\f7\i0\fs22 ing" of his life is revealed only in his death. But the reader of a novel actually does look for human beings from  whom he de\'ad rives the "meaning of life." Therefore  he must, no matter what, know in advance that  he will share their  experience of death: if need be their :figurative death-the end of the novel-but pref\'ad erably their actual one. How do the characters make him under\'ad stand that death is already waiting for them-a very definite death and at a very definite place? That is the question which feeds the reader's consuming interest in the events of the novel.\
\sl-240\slmult1\li3240\ql
The  novel is significant, therefore,  not  because it  presents\
\fi5\sl240\slmult1\li2940\qj
someone else's fate to us, perhaps didactically, but  because this stranger's fate by virtue of the flame which  consumes it yields us the warmth which we never draw from our own fate. What draws the reader to the novel \f5\fs20 is \f7\fs22 the hope of warming his shiver\'ad ing life with a death he reads about.\
\
\
\fi140533\li3240\ql
\fs16 XVI\
\
\fi0\sl216\slmult1\li2940\qj
\fs22 "Leskov," writes Gorky, "is the writer most deeply rooted in the  people and is completely untouched  by  any foreign influ\'ad ences." A great storyteller will always be rooted in the people, primarily in a milieu of craftsmen. But  just as this includes the rural, the maritime, and the urban elements in the many stages of their economic and technical development, there are many gra\'ad dations in the concepts in which their store of experience comes down to us. (To  say nothing of the by  no means insignificant share which traders had in the art of storytelling; their task was less to increase its didactic content than to refine the tricks with which the attention of the listener was captured. They  have left deep traces in the narrative cycle of \f4\i The  Arabian Nights.)  \f7\i0 In short, despite the  primary role which storytelling  plays in  the household of humanity, the concepts through  which the  yield of the stories may be garnered are manifold. What  may most readily be put in religious terms in Leskov seems almost auto\'ad matically to fall into place in the pedagogical perspectives of the Enlightenment in Hebel, appears as hermetic  tradition  in Poe, finds a Jast refuge in Kipling in the life of British seamen and\
\
\fi140533\sl240\slmult1\li3340\ql
\f4\i\fs12 101\
\fi11\li2640\qj
\f7\i0\fs20 colonial soldiers. All great storytellers have in common the free\'ad dom with which they move up and down  the rungs of their ex\'ad perience  as on a ladder.  A ladder  extending  downward   to  the interior   of  the  earth  and  disappearing  into  the  clouds  is  the image for a collective experience to which even the deepest shock of  every  individual  experience,  death,  constitutes   no  impedi\'ad ment or barrier.\
\fi306
"And  they lived happily ever after," says the fairy  tale. The fairy  tale, which  to this day is the first tutor  of children because \fs22 it \fs20 was once  the :first tutor  of mankind, secretly  lives on  in  the story.  The  first true storyteller  is, and  will continue  to  be, the teller of fairy  tales. Whenever  good counsel was at a premium, the fairy tale had it, and where the need was greatest, its aid was nearest. This  need was the need created  by the myth. The  fairy tale  tells us of the  earliest arrangements  that  mankind  made  to shake  off  the  nightmare  which  the  myth  had  placed  upon  its chest. In the figure of the fool it shows us how  mankind  "acts dumb"  toward  the myth; in the .figure of the  youngest  brother it shows us how one's chances increase as the mythical primitive times are left  behind; in the figure of the  man who sets out  to learn what  fear is it shows us that  the  things  we  are afraid  of can  be seen through;  in the figure of  the  wiseacre it shows  us that the questions posed by the myth are simple-minded, like the riddle of the Sphinx; in the shape of the animals which  come to the aid of the child in the fairy tale it shows that nature not only is subservient to the myth,  but much prefers  to . be aligned with man. The wisest thing-so the fairy tale taught  mankind in olden times, and teaches children  to this day-is to meet the forces  of the mythical  world  with cunning and with  high spirits. (This  is how the fairy tale polarizes \f4\i Mut, \f7\i0 courage, dividing it dialectically\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1\li2660into \f4\i\fs22 Untermut, \f7\i0\fs20 that is, cunning, and \f4\i\fs22 Ubermut, \f7\i0\fs20 high spirits.)  The\
\sl-216\slmult1
liberating  magic which  the fairy  tale has at its  disposal does not\
\fi5\sl240\slmult1\li2640bring nature into play in a mythical way, but  points to its com\'ad plicity  with  liberated  man. A mature  man feels this complicity only  occasionally, that is, when he is happy;  but  the  child  first meets it in fairy  tales, and it makes him happy.\
\
\fi140533\li3020\ql
\f4\i\fs14 IO.Z\
\
\li3180\f7\i0\fs16 XVI I\
\
\fi311\sl-240\slmult1\li2900\qj
\fs20 Few  storytellers  have displayed so profound  a kinship  with the spirit of the fairy tale as did Leskov. This  involves tendencies that   were  promoted   by  the  dogmas  of  the  Greek   Orthodox Church.  As is well known,  Origen's  speculation  about  \f4\i apokata\'ad stasis-the \f7\i0 entry  of all souls into Paradise-which was rejected  by\
\fi140533
the Roman Church  plays a significant \fs24 part \fs20 in these dogmas. Les\'ad kov was very  much influenced by Origen  and planned to trans\'ad late his work  \f4\i On First Principles. \f7\i0 In keeping  with  Russian folk belief  he interpreted  the  Resurrection  less as a  transfiguration than as a disenchantment,  in a sense akin to the fairy  tale. Such an interpretation of Origen  is at the bottom  of "The Enchanted\
\sl240\slmult1
Pilgrim." In this, as in many other  tales by Leskov, a hybrid  be\'ad tween  fairy  tale and  legend is involved, not  unlike  that  hybrid which Ernst Bloch mentions in a connection  in which he utilizes our distinction  between myth and fairy tale in his fashion.\
\fi328\li2880''A  hybrid  between  fairy  tale and legend,"  he says, "contains figuratively  mythical  eJements, mythical  elements  whose  effect is certainly  captivating  and static,  and  yet  not  outside  man. In the  legend  there  are  Taoist  figures,  especially  very   old  ones, which   are  'mythical'   in  this  sense. For   instance,  the  couple Philemon  and  Bauds:  magically  escaped  though  in  natural  re\'ad pose. And surely there is a similar relationship between fairy tale and legend in the Taoist  climate of Gotthelf, which,  to be sure, is on a much lower level. At certain points it divorces the legend from  the locality  of the spell, rescues the flame of life, the spe\'ad cifically human flame of life, calmly burning, within as without."\
\fi0
''Magically  escaped"  are  the  beings that  lead the  procession of  Leskov's  creations:  the  righteous  ones.  Pavlin,  Figura,  the toupee artiste, the bear keeper, the helpful sentry-all of them embodiments  of  wisdom,  kindness, comfort   the  world,  crowd about  the storyteller. They are  unmistakably  suffused  with  the \f4\i imago \f7\i0 of his mother.\
\fi306\sl-240\slmult1\li2900This  is how  Leskov  describes her:  "She  was so  thoroughly good that she was not capable of harming any  man, nor even an animal. She ate neither  meat nor :fish, because she had such  pity\
\
\fi140533\sl240\slmult1\li3280\ql
\f4\i\fs12 103\
\li2680\qj
\f7\i0\fs22 for living creatures. Sometimes my father used to reproach her with this. But she answered: 'I have raised the little animals my\'ad self, they are like my children to me. I can't eat my own chil\'ad dren, can I?' She would not eat meat at a neighbor's house either.\
\sl-240\slmult1
'I  have seen them alive,' she would say; 'they  are my acquaint\'ad\
ances. I can't eat my acquaintances, can I?' \fs14 n\
\fi300\sl240\slmult1
\fs22 The  righteous man is the advocate for created things and at the same time he is their highest embodiment. In Leskov he Qas a maternal touch which is occasionally intensified into the myth\'ad ical (and thus, to be sure, endangers the purity of the fairy tale).\
\fi5\sl-240\slmult1\li2660Typical  of this is the protagonist of his story  "Kotin  the Pro\'ad vider and Platonida.'' This figure, a peasant named Pisonski, is a hermaphrodite. For twelve years his mother raised him as a girl. His male and female organs mature simultaneously, and his bi\'ad\
\fi140533\li2640.sexuality "becomes the symbol of God incarnate."\
\fi300\li2660In Leskov's view, the pinnacle of creation has been attained with this, and at the same time he presumably sees it as a bridge established between this world and the other. For these earthily\
\fi140533
powerful, maternal male figures which  again and  again claim\
Leskov's skill as a storyteller have been removed from obedience\
\fi5\sl216\slmult1
to the sexual drive in the bloom of their strength. They do not, however, really embody an ascetic ideal; rather, the continence of these righteous men has so little privative character that it be\'ad comes the elemental counterpoise to uncontrolled lust which the storyteller  has personified in  \f4\i\fs24 Lady  Macbeth  of  Mzensk. \f5\i0\fs22 If \f7 the range between a Pavlin and this merchant's wife covers the breadth of the world of created beings, in the hierarchy of liis characters Leskov has no less plumbed \fs20 its \fs22 depth.\
\
\
\fi140533\sl240\slmult1\li2940\ql
\fs16 XV II I\
\
\fi294\sl-240\slmult1\li2660\qj
\fs22 The  hierarchy of the world of created things, which has \fs20 its \fs22 apex in the righteous man, reaches down into the abyss of the inanimate by many gradations. In this connection one particular has to be noted. This whole created world speaks not so much with the human voice as with what could be called "the voice of Nature" in the title of one of Leskov's most significant stories.\
\
\fi140533\sl240\slmult1\li3040\ql
\f4\i\fs12 104\
\
\fi204\li2920\f7\i0\fs20 This  story   deals  with   the  petty   official  Philip  Philipovich who  leaves no stone  unturned  to get  the chance  to  have as his house guest a field marshal passing through  his little  town.  He manages  to  do so. The  guest,  who  is at  first  surprised  at  the clerk's urgent  invitation,  gradually  comes to believe that  he rec\'ad ognizes in  him someone he must have met  previously. But who is he? He  cannot  remember. The  strange  thing  is that  the  host, for  his part, is not willing to reveal his identity.  Instead, he puts off the high personage from  day  to day, saying  that  the "voice of Nature" will not fail to speak distinctly  to him one day. This goes on until finally the guest, shortly  before  continuing  on his journey, must grant  the host's public request to let the "voice of Nature'' resound. Thereupon the host's wife withdraws. She "re\'ad turned  with a big, brightly  polished, copper  hunting  hom  which she gave to her husband. He took the hom, put it to his lips, and was at the  same instant  as though  transformed.  Hardly   had  he inflated his cheeks and produced a tone as powerful  as the rolling of thunder  when  the :field marshal cried! 'Stop,  I've got  it now, brother.  This  makes  me  recognize  you  at  once!  You  are  the bugler  from  the regiment  of  jaegers, and  because you  were so honest I sent  you  to  keep an eye  on a crooked  supplies super\'ad visor.' 'That's  it, Your  Excellency,'  answered  the  host. 'I didn't want  to remind you  of this myself, but wanted  to let the  voice of Nature  speak.'"\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1\li3240The  way  the  profundity of  this story  is hidden  beneath  its\
\sl240\slmult1\li2920\qc
silliness conveys an idea of Leskov's magnificent humor. This hu\'ad mor \fs22 is \fs20 confirmed in the same story in an even more cryptic  way. We  have heard  that  because of  his honesty  the  official was as\'ad signed to watch  a crooked  supplies supervisor. This  \f5\fs22 is \f7\fs20 what  we are told at the end, in the recognition  scene. At  the very  begin\'ad ning  of  the  story,  however,  we  learn  the  following  about  the host: "All the inhabitants of the town were  acquainted  with  the man, and they  knew  that  he did not  hold a high  office, for  he was neither a state official nor a military man, but a little super\'ad visor at the tiny supply  depot, where  together  with  the  rats he chewed  on the state  rusks and boot soles, and  in  the  course  of time had chewed  himself together  a nice little  frame  house." It\
\
\li3320\ql
\f4\i\fs18 105\
\
\li3000\fs20 lllumi'IUttions\
\
\fi5\li2620\qj
\f7\i0 is evident  that  this story  reflects  the  traditional sympathy which storytellers have for  rascals and crooks. All the literature of farce hears  witness  to  it. Nor  is it  denied on  the  heights  of art;  of  all Hebel's  characters, the  Brassenheim  Miller,  Tinder Frieder,  and Red  Dieter  have been  his most faithful  companions. And  yet  for Hebel;  too, the righteous man has the  main  role in the  \f4\i\fs22 theatrum \fs20 mundi. \f7\i0 But  because  no  one  is actually  up  to  this role,  it  keeps changing  hands. Now  it  is the  tramp,  now  the  haggling  Jewish peddler,  now  the man of limited intelligence who steps in to play\
\fi140533\sl264\slmult1\li2580\qc
this part.  In every  single  case it is a guest  performance, a moral improvisation. Hebel  is a casuist. He  will  not  for  anything take a stand  with  any  principle, but  he does  not  reject  it  either,  for any  principle  can  at  some  time  become  the  instrument of  the righteous man. Compare this  with  Leskov's  attitude. "I  realize," he writes  in his story  "A  Propos  of  the  Kreutzer Sonata," "that my  thinking  is based much  more  on a practical  view of life than on  abstract  philosophy or  lofty  morality; but  I  am  nevertheless used to  thinking the  way  I do." To  be sure,  the  moral  catastro\'ad phes that  appear  in Leskov's  world  are  to  the  moral  incidents  in Hebel's  world  as the  great,  silent flowing  of  the  Volga  is to  the babbling,   rushing   little   millstream.  Among  Leskov's   historical tales there  are several  in which  passions are  at  work  as destruc\'ad tively  as the  wrath of  Achilles  or the  hatred  of Hagen. It  is as\'ad tonishing  how fearfully the world  can darken  for  this author and with  what  majesty  evil can raise its scepter. Leskov  has evidently known   moods-and this  is  probably   one  of  the  few  character\'ad istics he shares  with  Dostoevsky-in which   he  was  close  to  an\'ad tinomian  ethics.  The elemental  natures  in  his \f4\i\fs22 Tales from Olden\
\sl-216\slmult1\li2620\qj
Times \f7\i0\fs20 go to the limit in their  ruthless passion. But it is precisely\
\sl-192\slmult1\li2600the mystics  who  have  been inclined  to see this limit as the  point\
\sl240\slmult1
at which  utter  depravity turns  into saintliness.\
\
\
\li2900\ql
\fs16 XIX\
\
\fi294\li2600\qj
\fs20 The lower  Leskov  descends on the scale of created  things  the more  obviously   does  his  way   of  viewing   things  approach   the mystical. Actually, as will be shown,  there  is much  evidence  that\
\
\fi140533\li2980\ql
\f4\i\fs12 106\
\
\li2920\f5\i0\fs22 in \f7 this, too, a characteristic is revealed which is inherent \f5 in \f7 the nature of the storyteller. To  be sure, only a few have ventured into  the  depths of inanimate nature, and  in  modern  narrative literature there is not much in which the voice of the anonymous storyteller, who was prior to all literature, resounds so clearly as it does in Leskov's story "The  Alexandrite." It deals with a semi\'ad precious stone, the chrysoberyl. The  mineral is the lowest stra\'ad tum of created things. For the storyteller, however, it is direcdy joined to the highest. To  him it is granted to see in this chryso\'ad beryl a natural prophecy of petrified, lifeless nature concerning the historical world in which he himself lives. This world is the world  of  Alexander II. The  storyteller-or rather,  the  man to whom he attributes his .own knowledge-is a gem engraver named Wenzel who has achieved the greatest conceivable skill in his art. One  can  juxtapose him with  the silversmiths of Tula  and say that-in the spirit of Leskov--the perfect artisan has access to the innermost chamber of the realm of created things. He is an in\'ad carnation othe devout. We  are told of this gem cutter:  "He suddenly squeezed my  hand on  which was the  ring  with  the alexandrite, which is known to sparkle red in artificial light, and cried: 'Look,  here it is, the prophetic Russian stone! 0 crafty Siberian. It was always green as hope and only toward evening was it suffused with blood. It was that way from the beginning of the world, but it concealed itself for a long time, lay hidden in the earth, and permitted itse]f to be found  only on  the day when Czar Alexander was declared of age, when a great sorcerer had come to Siberia to find the stone, a magician....' 'What nonsense are you talking,' I interrupted  him; 'this stone w sn't found  by  a  magician at  all, it  was a scholar  named  Norden\'ad skjold!' 'A magician! I tell you, a magician!' screamed Wenzel in a loud voice. 'Just look; what a stone! A green morning is in it and a bloody evening . \bullet  . This is fate, the fate of noble Czar Alexander!' With  these words old Wenzel  turned  to  the wall, propped his head on his elbows, and ... began to sob."\
\fi306\sl-240\slmult1\qj
One can hardly come any closer to the meaning of this signifi\'ad cant story  than by some words which Paul Valery  wrote  in a very  remote context. "Artistic  observation," he says in  reflec-\
\
\fi140533\sl240\slmult1\li3300\ql
\fs14 107\
\fi5\li2600\qj
\fs22 tions on a woman artist whose work consisted in the silk em\'ad broidery  of figures, "can  attain an almost mystical depth. The objects on which it falls lose their names. Light and shade form very panicular systems, present very individual questions which depend upon no knowledge and are derived from  no practice, but get their existence and value exclusively from a certain ac\'ad cord of the soul, the eye, and the hand of someone who was born to perceive them and evoke them in his own inner self."\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1\li2900\ql
With  these words, soul, \fs24 eye, \fs22 and hand are br.ought into con\'ad\
\li2600\qj
nection. Interacting with one another, they determine a practice.\
\fi5\sl240\slmult1\ql
We  are no longer familiar with  this practice. The  role of the hand in  production has become more modestand the place it filled in  storytelling  lies waste.  (After  all, storytelling,  in  its sensory aspect, is by no means a job for the voice alone. Rather,\
\fi11\li2580\qj
in genuine storytelling the hand plays a part which supports what is expressed in  a  hundred  ways  with  its  gestures trained  by work.) That old co-ordination of the soul, the eye, and the hand which emerges in Valery's words is that of the artisan which we encounter wherever the art of storytelling is at  home. In fact, one can go on and ask oneself whether  the  relationship of the storyteller to his material, human life, is not in itself a craftsman's relationship, whether it is not his very task to fashion the raw material of experience, his own and that  of  others, in a solid, useful, and unique way. It is a kind of  procedure which may perhaps most adequately be exempl fied\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1\li2600thinks of it as an ideogram of a story. A proverb, one might say,\
\sl216\slmult1
is a ruin which stands on the site of an old story  and in which a moral twines about a happening like \fs24 ivy \fs22 around a wall.\
\sl-240\slmult1\li2880\ql
Seen in this way, the storyteller joins the ranks of the teach\'ad\
\li2600\qj
ers and sages. He  has counsel-not  for  a few  situations, as the\
\fi5\sl216\slmult1\li2580proverb does, but for  many, like the sage. For it \fs20 is \fs22 granted to him to reach back to a whole lifetime (a life, incidentally, that comprises not only his own experience but  no little of the ex\'ad perience of others; what the storyteller knows from  hearsay is added to his own). His gift is the ability to relate his life; his distinction, to be able to tell his entire life. The  storyteller:  he \f5\fs20 is \f7\fs22 the man who could let the wick of his life be consumed com-\
\
\fi140533\sl240\slmult1\li2960\ql
\f4\i\fs12 108\
\fi5\li2920\qj
\f7\i0\fs22 pletely by the gentle flame of his story. This is the basis of the incomparable aura about the storyteller, in Leskov as in Hauff, in Poe as in Stevenson. The storyteller is the .figure in which the righteous man encounters himself.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\fi140533\li3300\ql
\f4\i\fs12 109\
\
\
\li3180\f5\i0\fs52 +\
\li3140\f6\i\fs32 Pranz \fs36 Xafka\
\
\li3120\f4\fs24 On the 1 entb Anniversary of 'His Deatb\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\li3180\f7\i0\fs16 POTEMltlN\
\
\fi306\li2880\qj
\fs22 It \fs20 is \fs22 related that Potemkin suffered from states of depression which  recurred  more or less regularly. At  such  times no one was allowed to go near him, and access to his room was strictly forbidden. This malady was never mentioned at  court,  and in particular it was known that any allusion to it incurred the dis\'ad favor of Empress Catherine. One of the Chancellor's depressions lasted for an extraordinary length of time and brought about serious difficulties; \fs20 in  \fs22 the  offices documents  piled  up  that  re\'ad quired Potemkin's signature, and the Empress pressed for  their completion. The  high officials were at their wits' end. One day an unimportant little clerk named Shuvalkin happened to enter the anteroom of the Chancellor's palace and found  the council\'ad lors of  state assembled there, moaning and  groaning  as usual. "What is the matter, Your Excellencies?" asked the obliging Shu\'ad valkin. They  explained things to  him and regretted' that  they could not use his services. \f5\fs20 "If \f7\fs22 that's all it is," said Shuvalkin, "I beg you to let me have those papers." Having  nothing to lose, the councillors of state let themselves be persuaded to do so, and with  the sheaf of documents under his arm, Shuvalkin set out,\
\
\fi140533\li3280\ql
\f4\i\fs14 Ill\
\fi28\li2680\f7\i0\fs22 through galleries and corridors, for Potemkin's bedroom. With\'ad out stopping or bothering to knock, he turned the door-handle; the room was not locked. In semidarkness Potemkin was sitting on his bed in a threadbare nightshirt, biting his nails. Shuvalkin stepped up to the writing desk, dipped a pen in ink, and without saying a word pressed it into Potemkin's hand while putting one of  the documents on his knees. Potemkin gave the intruder  a vacant stare; then, as though in his sleep, he started to sign-first one paper, then a second, finally all of them. When the last sig\'ad nature had been affixed, Shuvalkin took the papers under his arm and left the room without further ado, just as he had entered it. Waving the papers triumpantly, he stepped into  the anteroom. The  councillors of state rushed toward him and tore the docu\'ad ments out of his hands. Breathlessly they  bent over them. No one spoke a word;  the whole group  seemed paralyzed. Again Shuvalkin came closer and solicitously asked why the gentlemen seemed so upset. At that  point he noticed the signatures. One document after another was signed Shuvalkin . . . Shuvalkin . . . Shuvalkin....\
\fi306\sl216\slmult1\li2660\qj
This story is like a herald racing two  hundred years ahead of  Kafka's  work.  The  enigma which  beclouds  it  is  Kafka's enigma. The  world of offices and registries, of  musty, shabby, dark  rooms, is  Kafka's  world. The  obliging  Shuvalkin, who makes light of everything and is finally left  empty-handed, is Kafka's K. Potemkin, who vegetates, somnolent and unkempt, in a remote, inaccessible room, is an ancestor of those holders of power in Kafka's works who live in the attics as judges or in the castle as secretaries; no matter how highly placed they may be, they are always fallen or falling men, although even the lowest and seediest of them, the doorkeepers and the decrepit officials, may abruptly and strikingly appear in the fullness of their power. \f5\fs20 Why  \f7\fs22 do they vegetate? Could they  be the descendants of the figures of Atlas that support  globes with  their  shoulders? Per\'ad haps that is why  each has his head "so deep on  his chest that one can hardly see his eyes," like the Castellan in his portrait, or Klamm when he is alone. But \fs20 it  \fs22 is not  the  globe they  are carrying; it is just that even the most commonplace things have\
\
\fi140533\sl240\slmult1\li3040\ql
\f9\i\fs16 liZ\
\fi5\li2960\qj
\f7\i0\fs20 their weight. "His fatigue is that of the gladiator  after  the fight; his job was the  whitewashing of a corner  in the  office!" Georg Lukacs once said that in order to make a decent table nowadays, a man must have the architectural  genius of a Michelangelo. \f5\fs22 If \f7\fs20 Lukacs thinks in terms of ages, Kafka thinks in terms of cosmic epochs. The  man who whitewashes has epochs to move, even in his most insignificant movement. On  many  occasions and  often for  strange  reasons Kafka's figures  clap  their  hands. Once  the casual remark  is made that  these  hands are "really  steam  ham\'ad mers."\
\fi311\li2940\ql
We encounter  these holders of power in constant, slow move\'ad ment, rising or falling. But they  are at their  most terrible  when they  rise  from  the  deepest  decay-from  the  fathers.  The   son calms his spiritless, senile father  whom  he has just gently  put  to bed: " 'Don't worry, you  are well  covered  up.'  'No/ cried  his father, cutting short  the answer, threw  the blanket off with such strength  that  it  unfolded  fully  as it  flew, and stood  up  in  bed. Only  one  hand lightly  touched  the  ceiling  to steady  him. 'You wanted  to cover me up, I know, my little scamp, but I'm not all covered  up yet. And  even \fs22 if  \fs20 this is all the strength  I  have left, it's enough  for  youi too  much for  you. . . \bullet   But thank  goodness a father  does  not  need  to  be  taught   how  to  see  through  \f5 his \f7 son.' ... And he stood up quite unsupported  and kicked his legs out. He  beamed with insight.... 'So now  you  know  what  else there  was  in  the  world  besides yourself;  until  now  you  have known  onLy about  yourself!  It  is true,  you  were  an  innocent child, but it is even more true that you  have been a devilish per\'ad son!' " As the  father  throws  off the  burden  of  the  blanket,  he also throws  off a cosmic  burden. He  has to set  cosmic ages in motion  in order  to tum  the age-old father-son  relationship  into a  living  and  consequential  thing.  But  what  consequences!  He sentences  his son to  death  by  drowning.  The  father  is the  one\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1\qj
who  punishes; guilt  attracts  him  as it  does  the  court   officials. There  is much to indicate  that the world  of the officials and the\
warld  of the fathers  are the same to  Kafka. The  similarity  does not redound  to this world's credit;  it consists of dullness, decay,\
and dirt. The  father's  uniform  is stained all over;  his underwear\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li3320\ql
\f9\i llJ\
\
\li2980\f4 lllumi1111tiom\
\li2580\qc
\f5\i0\fs22 is \f7\fs20 dirty.  Filth \f5 is \f7 the element of the officials. "She  could not un\'ad derstand  why  there were office hours for  the public in the first place. 'To  get some dirt  on the front  staircase'-this is how  her question  was once  answered  by  an  official, who  was probably annoyed,  but  it  made a lot  of sense to  her.n  Uncleanness is so much the attribute  of officials that one could almost regard them as enormous parasites. This, of course, does not refer  to the eco\'ad nomic context,  but  to  the forces  of reason and  humanity  from which  this clan makes a living. In  the same way  the fathers  in Kafka's  strange  families batten  on  their  sons, lying  on  top  of them   like  giant   parasites.  They   not   only   prey   upon   their strength,  but gnaw away at the sons' right  to exist. The  fathers punish, but  they  are at  the same time the  accusers. The  sin of which  they accuse their sons seems to be a kind of original sin. The  definition  of it which  Kafka  has given applies to  the  sons more than  to anyone  else: "Original  sin, the  old injustice  com\'ad mitted  by  man, consists in  the complaint  unceasingly  made by man that  he has been the  victim of  an injustice,  the  victim  of original sin." But who is accused of this inherited  sin-the sin of having produced  an heir-if   not the father  by  the son? Accord\'ad ingly  the son would  be the sinner. But one must  not  conclude from  Kafka's definition that  the accusation is sinful because it is false. Nowhere  does Kafka  say  that  it  is made  wrongfully.  A never-ending  process is at work  here, and  no cause can appear in a worse light than the one for which the father  enlists the aid of these officials and court  offices. A boundless corruptibility is not their worst feature, for their essence is such that their venal\'ad ity  is the only  hope held out  to the  human spirit  facing  them. The  courts,  to be sure, have lawbooks at their disposal, but  peo\'ad ple are not allowed to see them. "It  is characteristic  of this legal system," conjectures  K., "that  one is sentenced  not  only  in in\'ad nocence  but also in ignorance." Laws and definite norms remain unwritten  in the  prehistoric  world. A  man can  transgress them without  suspecting it and thus become subject  to atonement. But no matter  how  hard it  may hit the  unsuspecting,  the transgres\'ad sion in the sense of the law is not accidental but fated, a destiny which appears here in all its ambiguity. In a cursory  investigation\
\
\li2980\ql
\f4\i\fs12 114\
\fi17\li2920\qj
\f7\i0\fs20 of the idea of fate in antiquity  Hermann  Cohen came to a "con\'ad clusion that  becomes inescapable": "the  very  rules of fate seem to  be  what  causes and  brings  about  the  breaking  away  from them, the defection., It is the same way with the legal authorities whose  proceedings  are  directed  against K. It  takes us back  far beyond the time of the giving of the Law on twelve tablets to a prehistoric   world,  written  law  being  one  of  the  first  victories scored over this world. In Kafka the written  law is contained  in books, but  these are secret; by  basing itself on them  the prehis\'ad toric  world  exerts its rule all the  more  ruthlessly.\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1\li3240\ql
In Kafka's works, the conditions in offices and in families have\
\fi11\sl240\slmult1\li2920\qj
multifarious  points of contact. In the village at the foot  of Castle Hill people use an illuminating saying. " 'We  have a saying here that  you  may  be familiar  with:  Official decisions are  as shy  as young  girls.t 'That's a sound observation/  said K., 'a sound  ob\'ad servation. Decisions may have even other  characteristics  in com\'ad mon with  girls.', The  most remarkable of these qualities is the willingness to lend oneself to anything,  like the shy  girls whom K. meets in \f4\i The Castle \f7\i0 and \f4\i The Trial, \f7\i0 girls who indulge in un\'ad chastity in the bosom of their family as they would in a bed. He encounters  them at every  turn; the rest give him as little trouble as the conquest  of the barmaid. "They embraced each other;  her little  body  burned  in  K.'s  hands; in  a state  of  unconsciousness which K. tried  to master constantly  but fruitlessly, they  rolled a little  way,  hit  Klamm's door  with  a  thud,  and  then  lay  in  the little puddles of beer and the other  refuse that  littered  the floor. Hours  passed . . . in which  K. constantly  had the  feeling  that he was losing his way or that he had wandered farther  than any\'ad one had ever wandered  before, to a place where even the air had nothing in common  with his native air, where all this strangeness might  choke  one,  yet  a  place so insanely  enchanting  that  one could  not  help but  go  on  and  lose oneself  even  further." We shall have more to say about this strange  place. The  remarkable thing is that  these whorelike women never seem to be beautiful. Rather,  beauty  appears  in Kafka's  world  only  in  the  most  ob\'ad scure places-among the accused persons, for  example. "This,  to be sure, is a strange  phenomenon, a natural  law, as it were....\
\
\fi140533\li3300\ql
\f9\i liJ\
\
\fi5\li2620\qj
\f7\i0 It cannot  be guilt  that  makes them attractive  . . . nor  can it be the  just punishment  which  makes them  attractive   in  anticipa\'ad tion . . . so it  must be the  mere charges  brought  against them that somehow show on them."\
\fi306\ql
From \f4\i\fs22 The Trial \f7\i0\fs20 it may be seen that these proceedings usually are  hopeless for  those accused-hopeless   even  when  they  have hopes of being acquitted. It may be this hopelessness that  brings out the beauty in them-the only creatures in Kafka thus favored. At least this would be very much in keeping with a conversation which Max Brod has related. "I remember," Brod writes, "a con\'ad versation with  Kafka which  began with  present-day  Europe  and the decline of  the  human race. 'We  are nihilistic thoughts,  sui\'ad cidal thoughts  that come into  God's  head,' Kafka said. This  re minded  me at first of the Gnostic  view of life: God  as the evil demiurge,  the world as his Fall. 'Oh  no,' said Kafka, 'our  world\
\fi140533\qj
is only  a bad mood  of God,  a bad day  of  his.' 'Then   there  is hope outside this manifestation of the world  that we know.'  He smiled. 'Oh,  plenty of hope, an infinite amount of hope-but not for  us.'" These  words   provide  a  bridge  to  those  extremely strange figures in Kafka, the only ones who  have escaped from the  family  circle and for  whom  there  may  be hope. These  are not  the  animals; not  even those hybrids  or  imaginary  creatures like the Cat Lamb or Odradek;  they all still live under  the spell of the family. It is no accident  that Gregor  Samsa wakes up as a bug in his parental  home and not somewhere else, and  that  the peculiar animal which is half kitten, half lamb, is inherited  from the father;  Odradek  likewise is the concern  of the father  of the family. The  "assistants," however, are outside this circle.\
\fi306
These  assistants belong  to  a group  of  figures  which  recurs through  Kafka's entire work. Their  tribe includes the confidence man who is unmasked in "Meditation";  the student  who  appears\
\fi11\li2580\qc
on  the balcony  at  night  as Karl Rossmann's neighbor;  and  the fools who live in that town in the south and never get tired. The twilight  in which  they exist is reminiscent of the uncertain  light in which  the figures in the short  prose pieces of Robert  Walser appear   [the   author   of  \f4\i\fs22 Der  Gehil:lfe, \f7\i0\fs20 The   Assistant,  a  novel Kafka  was very  fond  of].  In  Indian  mythology   there  9t:'e  the\
\
\fi140533\li2980\ql
\f4\i\fs18 116\
\li2900\qj
\fs24 gandharvas, \f7\i0\fs20 celestial creatures, beings in an unfinished state. Kaf\'ad ka's assistants are of that kind: neither  members of, nor strangers to, any  of  the  other  groups  of  figures, but,  rather,  messengers from one to the other. Kafka tells us that they resemble Barnabas, who is a messenger. They  have not yet been completely  released from. the  womb  of  nature,  and  that  is why  they  have "settled down  on  two  old  women's  skirts  on  the  floor  in  a  corner.  It\
\fi5
was . . . their ambition . . . to use up as little space as possible. To  that end they kept making various experiments, folding  their arms and  legs, huddling  close together;  in  the  darkness  all one could  see in  their  corner  was one big ball.H It  is for  them  and their kind, the unfinished and the bunglers, that there  is hope.\
\fi300
What  may be discerned, subtly  and informally, \f4\i\fs24 in \f7\i0\fs20 the activi\'ad ties of these messengers is law in an oppressive and gloomy  way for  this  whole  group  of  beings. None  has a  firm  place  in  the world,  firm, inalienable  outlines. There   is not  one  that  is  not either  rising or falling, none that  is not trading  qualities with \fs22 its\
\fi140533\li2880\qc
\fs20 enemy or neighbor, none that has not completed its period of time and  yet  is unripe,  none that  is not  deeply  exhausted  and  yet  is only at the beginning of a long existence. To  speak of .any order or  hierarchy  is  impossible here.  Even  the .world   of  myth  of which  we  think  in  this  context  is incomparably   younger   than Kafka's  world,   which  has  been  promised  redemption   by  the myth.  But \f5\fs22 if \f7\fs20 we can be sure of one thing, it is this:  Kafka  did not succumb  to its temptation. A latter-day  Ulysses, he let  the Sirens  go  by  "his  gaze  which  was  fixed  on  the  distance,  the Sirens  disappeared  as it  were  before  his determination,  and  at the very moment when he was closest to them he was no longer aware of them."  Among Kafka's ancestors in the ancient  world, the  Jews  and  the Chinese, whom  we shall encounter  later,  this Greek  one should  not  be forgotten.  Ulysses, after  all, stands at the .dividing line between  myth  and fairy  tale. Reason  and cun\'ad ning have inserted tricks into myths;  their forces cease to be in\'ad vincible. Fairy  tales are the traditional stories about  victory  over these  forces,  and  fairy   tales for  dialecticians  are  what   Kafka wrote when he went to work on legends. He inserted little tricks into  them;  then  he used  them  as proof  "that  inadequate,  even\
\
\li3280\ql
\f4\i\fs12 117\
\fi5\sl-240\slmult1\li2640\qj
\f7\i0\fs22 childish measures may also serve to  rescue one."  With  these words he begins his story about the "Si1ence of the Sirens." For Kafka's Sirens are silent; they have "an even more terrible weapon than their song ... their silence." This  they  used on Ulysses. But he, so Kafka tells us, "was so full of guile, was such a fox that not even the goddess of fate cou]d pierce his armor. Perhaps he had really noticed, although here the human under\'ad standing is beyond its depths, that the Sirens were silent, and op\'ad\
\fi140533
posed the afore-mentioned pretense to them and the gods merely as a sort of shield.',\
\fi323\sl240\slmult1\li2620Kafka's Sirens are silent. Perhaps because for  Kafka music and singing are an expression or  at  least a  token of  escape, a token of hope which comes to us from that intermediate world\'ad at once unfinished and commonplace, comforting  and silly-in which the assistants are at home. Kafka is like the lad who set out to learn what fear was. He has got into Potemkin's palace and .finally, in the depths of its cellar, has encountered Josephine, the singing mouse, whose tune he describes: "Something of our poor, brief childhood is in it, something of lost happiness which can never be found again, but also something of active present\'ad day life, of its small gaieties, unaccountable and  yet  real and unquenchable."\
\
\
\fi140533\li2920\ql
\fs16 A CHILDHOOD  PHc:Y.rOGRAPH\
\
\fi306\li2620\qj
\fs22 There is a childhood photograph of Kafka, a rarely touching portrayal of the "poor, brief childhood." It was probably made in one of those nineteenth-century studios whose draperies and palm trees, tapestries and easels placed them somewhere between a torture chamber and a throne room. At the age of approxi\'ad mately six the boy is presented in a sort of greenhouse setting. wearing a tight, heavily lace-trimmed, almost embarrassing child's suit. Palm branches loom in the background. And as if to make these upholstered tropics still more sultry and sticky, the model holds in  his left  hand an oversized, wide-brimmed hat  of  the type worn by Spaniards. Immensely sad eyes dominate the land-\
\
\fi140533\li3000\ql
\f4\i\fs20 118\
\
\li3320\fs16 Frtmz \fs18 Kafka\
\sl-240\slmult1\li2960\f7\i0\fs22 scape prearranged for  them, and the auricle of a big ear seems to be listening for its sounds.\
\li3260The  ardent "wish to become a Red Indian" may have con\'ad\
\fi11\sl240\slmult1\li2960sumed this great sadness at some point. \f5\fs20 "If \f7\fs22 one were  only  an Indian, instantly alert, and on a racing horse, leaning against the wind, kept on quivering briefly over the quivering ground, until one shed one's spurs, for  there were no spurs, threw away the reins, for  there were no reins, and barely saw the land before one as a smoothly mown heath, with the horse's neck and head already gone/'  A great deal is contained in this wish. Its fulfill\'ad ment,  which  he finds in  America, yields up  its secret. That \f4\i\fs20 Amerika \f7\i0\fs22 is a very special case is indicated by  the name of its hero. While in the earlier novels the author never addressed him\'ad self otherwise than with a mumbled initial, here he experiences a rebirth on a new continent with a full name. He  has this ex\'ad perience in the Nature Theater of Oklahoma. "At a street corner Karl saw a poster with the following announcement: The Okla\'ad homa Theater  will engage members for  its company\'b7 today  at CJayton 'Racetrack from \f4\i\fs20 6  \f7\i0\fs22 a.m. until midnight. The  great Thea\'ad ter of Oklahoma calls you! The  one and only call is today! \f5 If \f7 you miss your chance now, you miss it forever! If you think of your future, you should be one of us! Everyone is welcome! \f5 If \f7 you want to be an artist, come forward!  Our Theater  can use everyone and find the right place for  everyone! \f5 If \f7 you  decide to  join us, we congratulate you  here and now! But  hurry,  so that  you get in before midnight! At  twelve o'clock  the doors will be shut and never opened again! A curse on those who do not believe in us! Set out for Clayton!" The  reader of this an\'ad nouncement is Karl Rossmann, the third and happier incarnation of K., the hero of Kafka's novels. Happinesawaits him at the Nature Theater  of Oklahoma, which is really a racetrack,  just as "unhappiness" had once beset him on the narrow  rug in his room on  which  he ran about "as on  a  racetrack."  Ever since Kafka wrote  his "reflections for gentleman jockeys," ever since he made the "new attorneyn mount the courthouse steps, lifting his legs high, with a tread that made the marble ring, ever since he made his "children  on a country  road"  amble through  the\
\
\fi140533
\f4\i\fs18 Illumi'JUltiom\
\
\sl216\slmult1\li2600\qj
\f7\i0\fs22 countryside with large steps and folded arms, this figure had been familiar tq  him; and  even Karl  Rossmann, "distracted  \f5\fs24 by  \f7\fs22 his sleepiness," may often make ''too high, time-consuming, and use\'ad less leaps." Thus it can only be a racetrack on which he attains the object of his desire.\
\fi300
This racetrack is at the same time a theater, and this poses a puzzle. The  mysterious place and the entirely unmysterious, transparent, pure figure of Karl Rossmann are congruous, how.. ever. For Karl Rossmann is transparent, pure, without character as \fs20 it \fs22 were in the same sense in which Franz Rosenzweig says in his \f4\i\fs20 Star of Redemption  \f7\i0\fs22 that in China people, in . their spiritual aspects, are ''as \fs20 it  \fs22 were devoid of individual character; the idea of the wise man, of which Confucius is the classic incarnation, blurs any individuality of character; he is the truly characterless man, namely, the average man.... What distinguishes a Chinese is something quite different from character: \f5\fs20 a.  \f7\fs22 very elemental purity of feeling." No matter how one may convey it intellec.. tually, this purity of feeling may be a particularly sensitiy-e meas\'ad urement of gestic behavior; the Nature Theater of Oklahoma in any case harks back to the Chinese theater, which  is a gestic theater. One of the most significant functions of this theater is to dissolve happenings into their gestic components. One can go even further  and say that  a good  number of  Kafka's shorter studies and stories are seen in their full light only when they are, so to speak, put on as acts in the "Nature Theater of Oklahoma." Only then will one recognize with certainty that Kafka's entire work constitutes a code of gestures which surely had no definite symbolic meaning for  the  author from  the  outset; rather,  the author tried to derive such a meaning from them in ever-chang\'ad ing contexts and experimental groupings. The theater is the log\'ad ical place for  such groupings. In an unpublished commentary on  "A  Fratricide,"  Werner   Kraft  perceptively  identified  the events in this little story as scenic events. "The  play is ready to begin, and it is actually announced by a bell. This comes about in a very natural way. Wese leaves the  building in which  his office is located. But this doorbell, so we are expressly told, is\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1\li2680'too loud for a doorbell; it rings out over the town  and up to\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li3040\ql
\f4\i\fs12 120\
\
\li3340\fs20 Franz Kafka\
\li2960\qc
\f7\i0 heaven.' " Just  as this  bell, which  is too  loud  for  a  doorbell, rings out  toward  heaven, the gestures of  Kafka,s figures are too powerful  for  our  accustomed  surroundings  and  break  out  into wider areas. The  greater  Kafka's mastery  became, the more fre\'ad quently  did he eschew adapting these gestures  to common situa\'ad tions  or  explaining  them. "It  is strange  behavior/'   we  read  in "The Metamorphosis," "to  sit on the desk and talk down  at the employee, who, furthermore, must come quite  close because his boss is hard  of  hearing."  \f4\i\fs22 The Trial \f7\i0\fs20 has already  left such  moti\'ad vations far  behind. In  the  penultimate  chapter,  K. stops  at  the\
\li3000\ql
.first rows in the Cathedral, "but the priest seemed to consider the distance still too great; he stretched  out an arand pointed with his sharply  bent forefinger  to a spot right  in front  of the pulpit. K. followed  this direction  too; at that  place he had to  bend  his head far back to see the priest at all,,\
\fi306\qj
Max Brod  has said: ''The  world  of  those  realities that  were important  for  him was invisible." What Kafka could see least of all was the \f4\i gestus. \f7\i0 Each gesture is an event-one might even say, a drama-in itself. The  stage on which  this drama  akes\
\fi5
the Wodd Theater  which opens up toward  heaven. On the other hand, this heaven is only  background;  to explore it according  to its own laws would be like framing the  painted backdrop  of the stage and  hanging it in a picture  gallery.  Like El Greco,  Kafka tears open the sky behind every gesture;  but as with El Greco\'ad who was the  patron  saint of  the  Expressionists-the gesture  re\'ad mains the decisive thing, the center  of the event. The  people who have assumed responsibility for the knock at the manor gate walk doubled up with fright.  This is how a Chinese actor  would  por\'ad tray  terror,  but no one would give a start.  Elsewhere K. himself does a bit of acting. Without being fully  conscious of it, "slowly\
\li3020\bullet   . . with  his eyes not  looking  down  but  cautiously  raised up\'ad wards  he took  one of  the papers from  the  desk, put  it  on  the palm of  his hand  and  gradually  raised  it  up  to  the  gentlemen while getting  up  himself. He  had nothing  definite in mind, but acted only with the feeling that this was what  he would  have to do once he had completed  the big petition  which  was to  exon\'ad erate him completely." This animal gesture  combines the utmost\
\
\fi140533\li3400\ql
\f4\i\fs12 121\
\
\li2960\fs20 Illumination\
\fi5\li2600\qj
\f7\i0 mysteriousness with the utmost simplicity. It is possible to read Kafka's  animal stories  for  quite  a  while  without  realizing  that they  are  not  about  human  beings at  all. When  one  encounters the name of the creature-monkey, dog, mole-one looks up in fright  and  realizes that  one is already  far  away  from  the  con\'ad tinent of man. But it is always Kafka; he divests the human ges\'ad ture  of  its  traditional  supports  and  then  has a subject  for  re\'ad flection without  end.\
\fi300\li2580Strangely  enough,  these  reflections  are  endless even  when their  point  of  departure  is  one  of  Kafka's  philosophical  tales. Take,  for  example, the  parable "Before  the  Law.,  The  reader who read it in \f4\i A Country Doctor \f7\i0 may have been struck  by  the cloudy spot in it. But would it have led him to the never-ending series of reflections traceable to this parable at the place where Kafka  undertakes  to interpret  it?  This  is done  by  the  priest  in \f4\i The Trial, \f7\i0 and at such a significant moment that it looks as if the novel were nothing  but the unfolding  of the parable. The  word "unfolding't  has a double meaning. A bud unfolds into a blossom, but  the  boat  which  one  teaches  children  to  make  by  folding paper unfolds into a flat sheet of paper. This second kind of "un\'ad folding" is really appropriate to the parable; it is the reader's pleasure  to  smooth  it  out  so  that  he  has the  meaning  on  the palm of his hand. Kafka's  parables, however,  unfold in  the first sense, the way a bud turns into a blossom. That  is why  their ef\'ad fect  resembles poetry.  This  does not  mean that  his prose pieces belong entirely  in  the  tradition  of  Western  prose forms;  they have, rather,  a similar relationship  to  doctrine  as the  Haggadah does to the Halakah. They  are not parables, and yet  they do not want to be taken at their face value; they lend themselves to quotation  and  can be told for  purposes of clarification. But  do we have the doctrine which Kafka's parables interpret  and which K.'s postures and the gestures of his animals clarify?  It does not exist; all we can say is that  here and there  we have an allusion to it. Kafka might have said that these are relics transmitting  the doctrine,  although  we  could  regard  them  just as well  as pre\'ad cursors preparing  the doctrine.  In every  case it is a question  of how life and  work  are  organized in  human society. This  ques..\
\
\fi140533\li2980\ql
\f4\i\fs14 122\
\
\li3240\fs20 Franz Kafka\
\fi11\li2860\qj
\f7\i0 tion  increasingly  occupied  Kafka  as it  became  impenetrable  to him. \f5\fs22 If \f7\fs20 Napoleon,  in  his famous conversation  with  Goethe   at Erfurt, substituted  politics for fate, Kafka, in a variation of this statement,  could  have defined organization  as destiny.  He  faces it not only in the extensive hierarchy  of officialdom in \f4\i The Trial \f7\i0 and  \f4\i The Castle, \f7\i0 but  even  more  concretely   in  the  difficult and incalculable construction plans whose venerable  model he dealt with in \f4\i The Great Wall of China.\
\fi140533\sl-216\slmult1\li3160\ql
\f7\i0 ''The wall was to be a protection  for  centuries;  accordingly,\
\fi17\sl240\slmult1\li2840the most scrupulous  care ithe construction, the  application  of the  architectural  wisdom of all known  ages and  peoples, a con\'ad stant sense of personal responsibility on  the  part  of  the builders were  indispensable prerequisites for  the  work.  To  be sure, for the menial tasks ignorant  day laborers fron1 the  populace,  men, women,  and  children,  whoever  offered   his services  for  good money, could be used; but for the supervision even of every four day laborers a man trained in the building trade was required.... We-and here I speak in the name of many people-did not really know ourselves until  we had carefully scrutinized  the decrees of the high command; then we discovered  that without  this leader\'ad ship neither our book learning nor our common sense would have sufficed for  the  humble  tasks which  we  performed  in  the  great whole." This  organization  resembles fate. Metchnikoff,  who  has outlined  this in  his famous  book  \f4\i La Civilisation et les  grands fieuves historiques  \f7\i0 [Civilization  and  the  Great   Historical   Riv\'ad ers],  uses language  that  could  be Kafka's.  "The   canals  of  the Yangtze and the dams of the Yellow River," he writes, "are in all likelihood the result of the skillfully organized  joint labor of ..\bullet  generations. The  slightest carelessness in  the  digging  of a ditch or the buttressing  of a dam, the least bit of negligence or selfish behavior  on the  part  of an indiyidual or  a group  of men in the maintenance  of  the  common  hydraulic  wealth  becomes,  under such  unusual  circumstances,  the  source  of  social  evils and  far\'ad reaching  social  calamity.  Consequently,  a  life-giving  river  re\'ad quires on pain of death a close and permanent  solidarity  between groups of people that frequently  are alien or even hostile to one another;  \fs22 it \fs20 sentences everyone  to labors  whose common  useful-\
\
\fi140533\li3260\f9\i\fs14 123\
\
\li2620\qj
\f7\i0\fs20 ness is revealed only  by  time and whose  design quite  often  re\'ad\
mains utterly  incomprehensible to an ordinary  man."\
\fi306
Kafka wished to be numbered among ordinary  men. He  was pushed to the limits of understanding at every  turn, and he liked to push others to them as well. At times he seems \f5\fs16 to \f7\fs20 come dose to saying with Dostoevsky's Grand  Inquisitor:  "So we have be\'ad fore us \f5\fs16 .a \f7\fs20 mystery  which we cannot comprehend.  And  precisely because it is a mystery  we  have had the  right  to  preach  it,  to teach the people that  what  matters is neither  freedom  nor  love, but  the  riddle,  the secret,  the mystery  to  which  they  have  to how-without  reflection   and  even   against   their   conscience." Kafka did not always evade the temptations of mysticism. There is a diary  entry  concerning  his encounter  with  Rudolf  Steiner; in \fs22 its \fs20 published fonn  at least it does not  reflect Kafka's attitude toward  him. Did he avoid taking a stand?  His way with his own writings certainly  does not exclude this possibility. Kafka  had a rare capacity  for  creating  parables for  himself. Yet his parables are never exhausted by what  is explainable; on the contrary, he took all conceivable precautions against the interpretation of his writings. One has to find one's way in them circumspectly,  cau\'ad tiously, and warily. One must keep in mind Kafka's way of read\'ad ing as exemplified in his interpretation  of  the  above-mentioned parable. His  testament is another  case in  point. Given \fs22 .its \fs20 back\'ad ground,  the directive in which Kafka ordered  the destruction  of his literary  remains is just as unfathomable,  to  be weighed  just as carefully  as the  answers  of  the  doorkeeper  before  the  law. Perhaps Kafka, whose every day on earth brought  him up against insoluble behavior problems and undecipherable  communications, in death wished to give his contemporaries  a taste of their  own medicine.\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1\li2920\ql
Kafka's world is a world theater. For him, man is on the stage\
\fi5\sl240\slmult1\li2620\qj
from  the very  beginning. The  proof  of the  pudding  is the fact that everyone  is accepted  by the Nature  Theater  of Oklahoma. What  the standards for admission are cannot be determined. Dramatic talent, the most obvious criterion, seems to be of no importance.  But this can be expressed in another  way:  all that is expected of the applicants \f5\fs18 is \f7\fs20 the ability  to play themselves. It is\
\
\fi140533\li3000\ql
\f4\i\fs12 124\
\
\li3260\fs20 Frtmz Kafka\
\li2880\qj
\f7\i0\fs22 no longer within the realm of possibility that they could, if necessary, be what they claim to be. With  their roles these peo\'ad ple look for a position in the Nature Theater  just as Pirandello's \f5 six \f7 characters sought an author. For all of them this place is the last refuge, which does not preclude it from being their salvation. Salvation is not a premium on existence, but the last way out for a man whose path; as Kafka puts \fs20 it, \fs22 is "blocked . . . by his own frontal bone., The  law of this theater is contained in a sentence tucked away in "A Report to an Academy": "I imitated people because I was looking for a way out, and for no other reason." Before the end of his trial, K. seems to have an intimation of these things. He  suddenly  turns  to  the  two  gentlemen wearing  top hats who have come for him and asks them: " 'What  theater are you playing at?' 'Theater?' asked one, the corners of his mouth twitching as he looked for advice to the other, who acted as if he were a mute struggling to overcome a stubborn  disability." The men do not answer this question, but there is much to indi\'ad cate that it has hit home.\
\fi300\sl216\slmult1
\f4\i\fs24 At \f7\i0\fs22 a long bench which has been covered with a white cloth all those who  will henceforth be with  the Nature  Theater  are fed. "They  were all happy and excited." By way of celebration, extras act as angels. They  stand on high pedestals that are cov\'ad ered with  flowing raiments and have stairs inside-the  makings of a country  church  fair, or maybe a children's festival, which may have eliminated the sadness from  the eyes of  the  tightly\
\fi5
laced, dressed-up boy we discussed above. But for the fact  that their wings are tied on, these angels might be real. They  have forerunners  in  Kafka's works. One  of  them \f5\fs20 is \f7\fs22 the  impresario who climbs up on the luggage rack  next to  the  trapeze artist beset by  his "first  sorrow,"  caresses him and  presses his face against the artist's, "so that he was bathed by the trapeze artist's tears." Another, a guardian angel or guardian of the law, takes care of Schmar the murderer following the "fratricide" and leads him  away,  stepping  lightly,  with   Schmar's  "mouth   pressed against the policeman's shoulder." Kafka's \f4\i\fs20 Amerika \f7\i0\fs22 ends with the rustic ceremonies of Oklahoma. "In Kafka," said Soma Morgen\'ad stern, "there is the air of a village, as with all great founders of\
\
\fi140533\sl240\slmult1\li3260\ql
\f4\i\fs12 125\
\fi11\li2600\qj
\f7\i0\fs20 religions." Lao-tse's presentation of piousness is all the more per\'ad tinent  here because Kafka has supp1ied its most perfect  descrip\'ad tion  in  "The   Next  Village/'  "Neighboring  countries  may  be within  sight,  so. that  the  sounds of  roosters  and  dogs  may  be heard in the distance. And yet people are said to die at a ripe old age  without   having  traveled  far., Thus  Lao-tse.  Kafka  was  a writer  of parables, but he did not found  a religion.\
\fi306
Let us consider the village at the foot  of Castle Hill whence K.'s  alleged employment  as a land surveyor  is so mysteriously and unexpectedly confirmed. In his Postscript to \f4\i The Castle \f7\i0 Brod mentioned that in depicting this village at the foot  of Castle Hill Kafka  had in mind a specific place, Ziirau in  the  Erz  Gebirge. We  may, however, also recognize another  village in it. It is the vil1age in a Talmudic  legend  told  by  a  rabbi  in  answer  to  the question  why  Jews  prepare  a festive evening  meal on  Fridays. The  legend is about  a princess languishing  in exile, in a village whose language  she does n<?t  understand,  far  from  her  compa\'ad triots.  One  day  this  princess  receives a  letter  saying  that  her fiance has not forgotten  her and is on his way to her. The  fiance, so says the rabbi, is the Messiah; the princess is the soul; the vil\'ad lage in which she lives in exile is the body. She prepares a meal\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1\li2620for  him because this is the  only  \fs24 way \fs20 in which  she can  express\
\fi5\li2600her  joy in a village whose language she does not know. This  vil\'ad lage of the Talmud  is right in Kafka's world. For  just as K. lives in the village on Castle Hill, modern  man lives in his body; the\
\sl240\slmult1
body slips away fro:m him, is hostile toward  him. It may happen that a man wakes up one day and finds himself transformed  into vermin. Exile-his exile-has  gained control  over him. The  air of this  village  blows  about  Kafka,  and  that  is  why  he  was  not tempted  to found  a religion. The  pigsty which  houses the coun\'ad try  doctor's  horses; the  stuffy  back  room  in  which  Klamm, a cigar in his mouth, sits over a glass of beer; the  manor gate, to knock against which brings ruin-all these are part of this village. The  air in this village is not free of all the abortive and overripe elements that  form  such  a putrid  mixture.  This  is the  air  that Kafka had to breathe all his life. He  was neither  mantic nor  the founder  of a religion. How  was he able to survive in this air?\
\
\fi140533\li2980\ql
\f4\i\fs12 126\
\
\li3240\f7\i0\fs16 THE  LITTLE  HUNCHBACK\
\
\fi300\li2940\qj
\fs20 Some time ago \fs22 it \fs20 became known  that  Knut  Hamsun  was in the  habit  of  expressing his views in  an  occasional letter  to  the editor  of the local paper in the small town  near which  he lived. Years ago that town was the scene of the jury trial of a maid who had killed her infant  child. She was sentenced  to  a prison term. Soon thereafter  the local paper printed  a letter  from  Hamsun  in which  he announced  his intention  of leaving a town  which  did not visit the supreme punishment on a mother who killed her newborn  child-the gallows, or at least a life term  of hard labor. A few  years  passed. \f4\i Growth  of the Soil \f7\i0 appeared,  and it  con\'ad tained the story  of a maid who committed  the same crime, suf\'ad fered  the same punishment, and, as is made clear  to the reader, surely  deserved no more severe one.\
\fi306\li2960Kafka's  posthumous  reflections, which  are contained  in  \f4\i The Great Wall of China, \f7\i0 recall this to mind. Hardly  had this volume appeared  when  the  reflections served  as the  basis for  a  Kafka criticism which concentrated  on an interpretation of these re\'ad flections to the neglect of his real works. There  are two ways to miss the  point  of  Kafka's works. One  is to  interpret   them  nat\'ad urally, the other is the supernatural  interpretation. Both the psy\'ad choanalytic  and the theological interpretations equally miss the essential points. The .first kind is represented  by Hellmuth  Kaiser;\
\fi140533\sl-264\slmult1
the second, by  numerous  writers,  such  as H.  \fs28 J. \fs20 Schoeps, Bern\'ad\
\sl-240\slmult1
hard  Rang,  and  Bernhard  Groethuysen. To  these last also  be\'ad\
\fi17\sl240\slmult1\li2940longs Willy  Haas, although  he has made revealing comments  on Kafka in other contexts which we shall discuss later; such insights did not prevent him from interpreting Kafka's work after  a theological  pattern. "The  powers above, the realm of grace," so Haas writes, "Kafka  has depicted in his great  novel \f4\i The Castle; \f7\i0 the powers below, the realm of the courts  and of damnation, he has dealt with in his equally great novel \f4\i The Trial. \f7\i0 The  earth be\'ad\
\fi140533\sl-216\slmult1\li2920tween  the  two,  earthly   fate  and  its  arduous  demands,  he  at\'ad\
\fi5\sl-240\slmult1
tempted  to  present  in  strictly  stylized  form  in  a  third  novel, \f4\i Amerika." \f7\i0 The  first third  of  this interpretation has, since Brod, become the common property  of Kafka criticism. Bernhard Rang\
\
\fi140533\sl240\slmult1\li3280\ql
\f4\i\fs14 121\
\li2600\qj
\f7\i0\fs20 writes in a similar vein: "To  the extent  that  one may regard  the Castle as the seat of  grace,  precisely  these  vain efforts  and  at\'ad tempts mean, theologically speaking, that God's  grace cannot  be attained or forced  by man at will and deliberately. Unrest  and impatience only impede and confound  the exalted stillness of the divine." This  interpretation is a convenient  one; but  the further \fs22 it \fs20 is carried,  the clearer it  becomes that  it is untenable. This  is perhaps seen most clearly in a statement  by Willy  Haas. "Kafka goes back . . . to Kierkegaard as well as to Pascal; one may call him the only legitimate heir of these two. In all three. there is an excruciatingly  harsh basic religious theme:  man is always in the wrong  before God.... Kafka's upper world, his so-called Castle, with its immense, complex staff of petty  and rather  lecherous officials, his strange heaven plays a horrible game with people ... and yet  man is very  much in the wrong  even  before  this god.'' This  theology falls far behind the doctrine  of  justification of St. Anselm of Canterbury  into  barbaric speculations  which  do  not even seem consistent with the text of Kafka's works. "Can an individual official forgive?"  we read in \f4\i The Castle. \f7\i0 "This  could only  be a matter  for  the over-all authorities,  but  even they  can probably  not  forgive  but  only  judge." This  road  has soon  led into  a blind alley. "All  this," says Denis de Rougemont,  "is\'b7 not the wretched  situation  of man without  a god, but the  wretched state of a man who is bound to a god he does not know, because he does not know Christ."\
\sl-240\slmult1\li2920\ql
It is easier to draw speculative conclusions from Kafka's post\'ad\
\fi5\sl240\slmult1\li2620\qj
humous  collection  of  notes  than  to  explore  even  one  of  the motifs that  appear in his stories and novels. Yet only  these give some clue to the prehistoric forces that  dominated  K;afka's crea\'ad tiveness, forces which, to be sure, may  justifiably be regarded  as belonging to our  world as well. Who  can say under  what names they  appeared to Kafka  himself? Only  this much  is certain:  he did not  know  them and failed to get  his bearings among  them. In the mirror which the prehistoric world held before him in the form  of  guilt  he merely  saw  the future  emerging  in  the  form of  judgment. Kafka, however, did not say what \fs22 it \fs20 was like. Was it  not  the  Last Judgment?  Does it  not  turn  the  judge into  the\
\
\fi140533\li3000\ql
\f4\i\fs16 128\
\li2960\qj
\f7\i0\fs20 defendant? \fs24 Is \fs20 the trial not the punishment? Kafka gave no answer. Did he expect anything  of this punishment?  Or was he not rather concerned  to postpone it? In the stories which Kafka left us, nar\'ad rative art regains the significance it had in the mouth of Schehera\'ad zade: to postpone  the future.  In \f4\i\fs22 The Trial \f7\i0\fs20 postponement  is the hope of  the accused  man only  if  the  proceedings  do  not  grad\'ad ually turn  into the  judgment. The  patriarch  himself is to benefit\
by  postponement,  even though  he may  have to  trade  his place in tradition for  it. "I  could conceive of another  Abraham-to  be sure, he would never get to be a patriarch  or even an\'b7 old-clothes dealer-, an Abraham  who  would be prepared  to satisfy the  de\'ad mand  for  a  sacrifice  immediately,  with   the  promptness  of  a waiter, but would  be unable to bring it off because he cannot get away,  being indispensable; the household  needs him, there is al\'ad ways something or other to take care of, the house is never ready; but  without  having  his house ready,  without  having something to fall back on, he cannot  leave-this the  Bible also realized, for \fs22 it \fs20 says: 'He set his. house in order.' "\
\fi294\li2980This  Abraham  appears  "with   the  promptness  of  a  waiter." Kafka could understand  things only in the form  of a \f4\i\fs24 gestuS,  \f7\i0\fs20 and this \f4\i gestus \f7\i0 which  he did  not  understand  constitutes  the  cloudy part of the parables. Kafka \fs8 1\fs20 s writings  emanate from it. The  way he withheld  them is well known.  His testament  orders  their  de\'ad struction. This document, which no one interested in Kafka can disregard, says that the writings did not satisfy their author,  that he regarded  his efforts as failures, that he counted  himself among\
\fi140533
those who were bound to fail. He did fail in his grandiose attempt to convert  poetry  into doctrine,  to turn  it into a parable and re\'ad store to it that stability  and unpretentiousness  which, in the face of reason, seemed to him to be the only appropriate  thing for  it. No other  writer  has obeyed  the commandment  "Thou shalt not make unto  thee a graven image" so faithfully.\
\sl-240\slmult1\li3280\ql
"It  was as \fs22 if \fs20 the shame of it was to outlive him." With  these\
\li2980\qj
words \f4\i\fs22 The Trial \f7\i0\fs20 ends. Corresponding  as it does to his "elemen\'ad tal purity  of feeling," shame is Kafka's strongest  gesture. It has a dual aspect, however. Shame is an intimate  human reaction,  but at the same time it has social pretensions. Shame is not only shame\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li3360\ql
\f4\i\fs14 129\
\
\li2980\fs18 llluminatiom\
\fi5\li2600\f7\i0\fs20 in  the  presence of  others,  hut  can also be shame one  feels for them. Kafka's shame, then, is no more personal than the life and thought  which govern  it and which  he .has described thus: "He does not live for  the sake of his own life, he does not  think  for the sake of his own  thought.  He feels as though  he were  living and  thinking  under  the  constraint  of  a family.... Because of this unknown  family  ... he cannot  be released." We  do  not know  the make-up of this unknown  family, which is composed of  human beings and animals. But this much  is clear: \fs22 it  \fs20 is this family  that  forces  Kafka  to  move cosmic ages in  his writings. Doing this family's bidding, he moves the mass of historical hap\'ad penings as Sisyphus rolled the stone. As he does so, its nether side comes to light; it is not a pleasant sight, but Kafka is capable of bearing it. "To  believe in progress is not to believe that progress has already taken place. That  would be no belief." Kafka did not consider the age in which he lived as an advance over the begin\'ad nings of time. His novels are set in a swamp world. In his works, created  things appear  at  the  stage which  Bachofen  has termed the  hetaeric  stage. The  fact  that  it  is now  forgotten   does  not mean that it does not extend into the present. On  the contrary: \fs22 it \fs20 is actual by virtue of this very oblivion. An experience deeper than that of an average person can make contact  with it. "I  have experience," we read in one of Kafka's earliest notes, "and  I am not  joking when I say that it is a seasickness on dry  land." It  is no  accident  that  the  first  "Meditation"  was made  on  a swing. And Kafka does not tire of expressing himself on the fluctuating nature  of experiences. Each gives way  and mingles with  its op\'ad posite. "It was summer, a hot day," so begins "The  Knock at the Manor Gate.''  uWith  my sister I was passing the gate of a great house on our way home. I don't  remember whether  she knocked on the gate out  of mischief or in a fit of absent-mindedness, or merely shook her fist at it and did not  knock  at all." The  very possibility of the  third  alternative puts the other  two, which  at first seemed harmless, in a different light. It is from  the swampy soil of such experiences that Kafka's female characters  rise. They are swamp crearures like Leni, "who stretches out the middle and ring  fingers  of  her  right  hand  between  which  the  connecting\
\
\fi140533\li3000\f4\i\fs12 IJO\
\
\fi5\li2860\qj
\f7\i0\fs20 web.of  skin reached almost to the top  joint, short  as the fingers were."  "Fine  times/'  so the ambivalent  Frieda  reminisces about her earlier life; "you  never asked me about  my  past." This  past takes us back to the dark, deep womb, the scene of the mating "whose   untrammeled   voluptuousness,,  to  quote   Bachofen,  "is hateful  to the  pure forces  of  heavenly light  and  which  justifies the term  used by Arnobius,  \f4\i luteae voluptates  \f7\i0 [dirty  voluptuous\'ad ness].''\
\fi306\ql
Only from  this vantage point can the technique  of Kafka the storyteller   be  comprehended. Whenever   figures  in  the  novels have anything  to say to K., no matter how important  or surpris\'b7 ing it may be, they  do so casualJy and with  the implication  that he must really  have known  it all along. It  is as though  nothing new was being imparted, as though the hero was just being subtly invited to recall to mind something that he had forgotten. This is how  Willy  Haas  has interpreted   the  course  of  events  in  \f4\i The Trial, \f7\i0 and justifiably so. "The  object of the trial," he writes, "in\'ad deed, the  real hero  of this incredible  book  is forgetting,  whose main characteristic  is the  forgetting  of  itself .... Here  it  has actually  become a mute  figure in the shape of the accused man, a figure  of  the  most striking  intensity."  It  probably  cannot  be denied that "this  mysterious center  ... derives from  the Jewish religion." "Memory  plays a very mysterious  role as piousness. It is not an ordinary,  but .\bullet . the most profound  quality of Jehovah that  he remembers,  that  he retains an infallible  memory  'to  the third  and founh, even  to  the hundredth  generation.'  The  most sacred . . . act of  the . . . ritual is the erasing  of sins from  the book of memory.,\
\fi300\qj
What  has been forgotten-and this insight  affords us yet  an\'ad other   avenue  of  access  to  Kafka's  work-is  never  something purely  individual.  Everything forgotten   mingles with  what  has been forgotten of the prehistoric  world, forms  countless, uncer\'ad tain,  changing  compounds,  yielding  a  constant  :flow of  new, strange  proctucts. Oblivion is the container  from  which  the inex\'ad haustible intermediate  world in Kafkas\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1
light. "Here the  very  fullness of the world  is considered  as the only  reality. All spirit  must be concrete,  particularized  \f5 in \f7 order\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li3020\ql
\f4\i Franz Kafka\
\fi11\li2640\f7\i0 to have its place and \f4\i raison d'etre. \f7\i0 The spiritual, if it plays a role at all, turns into spirits. These spirits become definite individuals, with  names and a very special connection  with  the name of the worshiper. . . . Without any scruples  their  fullness \f5\fs22 is \f7\fs20 crammed into the fullness of the world..\bullet . The crowd  of spirits is swelled without  any concern  ... new ones are constantly  added to  the old ones, and all are distinguished from  the others by  their  own names." All this does not  refer to Kafka, but  to-China. This  is how Franz Rosenzweig describes the Chinese ancestor cult in his \f4\i Star of Redemption. \f7\i0 To  Kafka, the  world  of  his ancestors  was as unfathomable as the world of realities was important  for  him, and. we may be sure that, like the totem  poles of  primitive peo\'ad ples, the world of ancestors took him down  to the animals. Inci\'ad dentally, Kafka is not the only writer  for  whom  animals are the\
\li2620receptacles  of  the  forgotten. In  Tieck's   profound   story  "Fair Eckbert," the forgotten  name of a little dog, Sttohmi, stands for a mysterious guilt. One can understand, then, that  Kafka did not tire of picking up the forgotten  from animals. They are not  the goal, to be sure, but one cannot do without  them. A case in point is the "hunger  artist"  who, "strictly  speaking, was only  an im\'ad pediment  on  the  way  to  the  menagerie." Can  one  not  see  the animals in "The  Burrow'' or "The  Giant  Mole"  ponder  as they dig in?  And  yet  this thinking  is extremely  flighty.  Irresolutely it flits from  one worry to  the next, it  nibbles at  every  anxiety with the fickleness of despair. Thus there are butterflies in Kafka, too.  The  guilt-ridden  "Hunter Gracchus,"  who  refuses  to  ac\'ad knowledge his guilt, "has turned into a butterfly." "Don't laugh,n says the hunter Gracchus. This much is certain:  of all of Kafka's creatures,  the  animals have the greatest  opportunity for  reflec\'ad tion. What  corruption  is in the law, anxiety is in their  thinking. Imesses a situation  up, yet it is the only hopeful thing about it. However,  because  the  most  forgotten  alien  land  is one's  own body,  one  can  understand   why  Kafka  called  the  cough  that erupted from within  him "the animal." It was the most advanced outpost of the great  herd.\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1\li2920The strangest  bastard which the prehistoric  world  has begot\'ad\
\li2620ten with guilt in Kafka is Odradek  [in  \f5\fs8 11\f7\fs20 The  Cares of a Family\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li3000\f9\i\fs14 132\
\li2860\f7\i0\fs20 Man"]. "At  first sight  it  looks like a flat, star-shaped  spool for thread, and it really seems to have thread wound  around it; to be sure, they  probably  are only old, broken-off  bits of thread  that are knotted  and tangled together, of all sorts and colors. But it is not  just a spool, for  a small wooden  cross-bar  sticks out  of  the middle of the star, and another small rod is joined to it at a right angle. With  the aid of this latter rod on one side and one of the extensions  of  the star  on  the other,  the  whole  thing  can  stand upright  as \f5 if \f7 on two legs." Odradek  "stays alternately  in the at\'ad tic, on the staircase, in the corridors,  and in the hall!'So  it pre\'ad fers the same places as the court  of law which  investigates guilt. Attics are the places of discarded, forgotten objects. Perhaps the necessity to appear before a court of justice gives rise to a feeling similar  to  that  with  which  one  approaches  trunks  in  the  attic which  have been locked up for years. One would  like to put off this chore  till the end of time, just as K. regards  his written  de\'ad fense  as suitable  "for   occupying   one's  senile  mind  some  day during  retirement."\
\fi306\qj
Odradek  is the form  which  things  assume in oblivion. They are  distorted.  The  "cares  of a family  man,"  which  no  one can identify,  are distorted;  the bug, of which  we know  all too  well that it represents Gregor  Samsa, is distorted;  the big animal, half\
\fi140533
,  lamb,  half kitten,  for  which  "the  butcher's  knife"  might  be "a release," \f4\i\fs24 is \f7\i0\fs20 distorted.  These  Kafka  figures  are  connected  by  a long series of figures with the prototype of distortion,  the hunch\'ad back. Among the images in Kafka's stories, none is more frequent than that of the man who  bows his head far down  on his chest: the fatigue of the court  officials, the noise affecting  the doormen\
\li2820\qc
in the hotel, the low ceiling facing  the visitors in the gallery. In the \f4\i\fs22 Penal Colony \f7\i0\fs20 those in power use an archaic  apparatus which engraves letters with curlicues on the backs of guilty  men, multi\'ad plying the stabs and piling up the ornaments  to  the point  where the  back of  the guilty  man becomes clairvoyant  and  is able to decipher  the  writing  from  which  he must derive  the  nature  of his unknown  guilt. It is the back on which  this is incumbent.  It was always this way with Kafka. Compare this early diary entry: "In order  to be as heavy as possible, which I believe to be an aid\
\
\li3000\ql
\f4\i\fs18 llluminatiom\
\fi5\li2620\qj
\f7\i0\fs20 to falling asleep, I had crossed my arms and put \fs24 my \fs20 hands on my shoulders, so that \f5 I \f7 lay there like a soldier with  his pack." Quite palpably, being loaded down is here equated with forgetting,  the forgetting of  a sleeping man. The  same symbol  occurs  in  the folksong "The  Little Hunchback." This  little man  is at home in distorted  life; he will disappear with  the coming of  the Messiah, of whom a great rabbi once said that he did not  wish to change the  world  by  force,  but  would  only  make  a  slight  adjustment in it.\
\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1\li2980\ql
When  I come into my room,\
\sl-192\slmult1
\f5 My \f7 little bed to make,\
\sl-216\slmult1
A little hunchback is in there,\
With  laughter does he shake.\
\sl240\slmult1\li2620\qj
This is the laughter  of Odradek, which is described as sounding\
\li2640"something like the rustling in \fs22 fallir:tg \fs20 leaves."\
\
\li2980\ql
When  I kneel upon my stool\
\sl-216\slmult1
And I want to pray,\
A hunchbacked man is \f5 in \f7 the room\
And he starts to say:\
\f5 My \f7 dear child, I beg of you,\
\li2960Pray for the little hunchback too.\
\fi11\sl240\slmult1\li2620\qj
So ends  the  folksong.  In  his depth  Kafka  touches  the  ground which neither "mythical divination" nor "existential theologi' supplied him with. It is the core of folk tradition,  the German  as well as the  jewish. Even if Kafka did not  pray-and this we do not  know-he still possessed in  the  highest  degree  what  Male\'ad branche  called "the  natural  prayer  of  the  soul":  attentiveness. And in this attentiveness he included all living creatures, as saints include  them in their  prayers.\
\
\
\fi140533\li2920\ql
\fs16 SANCHO  PANZA\
\
\fi306\li2600\qj
\fs20 In a Hasidic village, so the story  goes, Jews  were sitting  to\'ad gether in a shabby inn one Sabbath evening. They  were all local people, with  the exception  of  one person no  one knew, a very poor, ragged man who was squatting in a dark corner at the back\
\
\fi140533\li2980\ql
\f4\i\fs16 134\
\
\fi11\li2880\qj
\f7\i0\fs20 of the room. All sorts of things were discussed, and  then it was suggested  that  everyone  should  tell what  wish  he would  make if  one  were  granted   him.  One  man  wanted   money;  another wished for  a son-in-law;  a third  dreamed  of  a new  carpenter's bench; and so everyone  spoke in turn.  After  they  had finished, only the beggar in his dark corner was left. Reluctantly and hesitantly  he answered  the question. "I  wish I  were  a powerful king reigning over a big country.  Then,  some night while I was asleep in  my  palace, an enemy  would  invade  my  country,  and by  dawn  his horsemen  would  penetrate  to  my  castle and  meet with  no resistance. Roused from  my sleep, I wouldn't have time even to dress and I would  have to flee in my shirt. Rushing over hill and dale and through  forests day and night, I would  finally arrive  safely right  here at the bench  in this corner.  This  is my wish."  The  others  exchanged  uncomprehending  glances. "And what good would this wish have done you?" someone asked. "I'd have a shirt," was the answer.\
\fi306\li2900This story  takes us right into the mi1ieu of Kafka's world. No one says that  the distortions  which  it will be the Messiah's mis\'ad sion to set right someday affect only our space; surely they are distortions of our time as well. Kafka must have had this in mind, and in this certainty  he made the grandfather  in "The  Next  Vil\'ad lage" say:  "Life  is astonishingly short.  As I  look  back  over  it, life seems so foreshortened  to  me that I can  hardly  understand, for  instance, how  a young  man can  decide  to  ride  over  to  the next village without  being afraid that, quite apart from accidents, even the span of a normal life that passes happily  may be totally insufficient for such a ride." This old man's brother  is the beggar whose  "normal"  life  that  "passes happily"  does  not  even  leave him time for a wish, but  who is exempted from  this wish in the abnormal, unhappy life, that is, the flight which  he attempts  in his story,  and exchanges the  wish for its fulfillment.\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1\li3200\ql
Among  Kafka's  creatures  there is a clan  which  reckons  with\
\fi11\sl240\slmult1\li2900\qj
the brevity  of life in a peculiar way. It comes from  the "city  in the  south  . . . of  which  it  was said:  'People  live  there  who\'ad imagine!-don't sleep!'-'And why  not?'-'Because they  don't  get tired.'-'Why don't  they?'-'Because they are fools.'-'Don't  fools\
\
\fi140533\li2980\ql
\f4\i Illuminations\
\fi11\li2600\qj
\f7\i0 get  tired?'-'How could fools get tired?'" \f4\i One \f7\i0 can see that the fools are akin to the indefatigable assistants. But there is more to this clan. It is casually remarked of the faces of the assistants that they  seem  to  \f4\i be \f7\i0 those of  ''grown-ups,   perhaps  \f4\i even \f7\i0 students." Actually, the students who appear in the strangest places in Kaf\'ad ka's works are the spokesmen for and leaders of this clan. "'But when  do you  sleep?' asked Karl, looking  at  the student  in \'b7sur\'ad prise. 'Oh, sleep!' said the student. 'I'll  get some sleep when I'm finished with  my studies.'" This  reminds  one  of  the  reluctance with  which  children  go to  bed; after  all, while they  are asleep, something  might  happen that  concerns  them. "Don't  forget  the best!" We  are familiar with  this remark from  a nebulous bunch of old stories, although it may not occur in any of them. But for\'ad getting  always involves the  best, for  it  involves the  possibility of redemption. "The  idea of helping me is an illness and requires bed rest for a cure," ironically says the restlessly wandering ghost of  the  hunter  Gracchus.  While  they  study,   the  students  are awake, and perhaps their being kept awake is the best thing about these studies. The  hunger artist fasts, the doorkeeper  is silent, and the students are awake. This is the veiled way in which the great rules of asceticism operate in Kafka.\
\fi311
Their  crowning achievement is studying.  Reverently Kafka unearths it from long-lost boyhood. "Not very unlike this-a  long time ago-Karl had sat at  home at his parents'  table writing  his homework, while his father read the newspaper or did bookkeep\'ad ing  and  correspondence  for  \f4\i\fs24 some \f7\i0\fs20 organization  and  his mother\
\fi140533\sl-216\slmult1
was busy sewing, drawing  the thread high out of the material in\
\fi5\sl240\slmult1
her hand. To  avoid disturbing  his father,  Karl used to  put only his exercise book and his writing materials on the table, while he arranged  the books he needed on chairs to die  right  and left of him. How quiet it had been there! How seldom strangers had en\'ad tered that room!" Perhaps these studies had amounted to nothing. But  they  are very  close to  that  nothing  which  alone  makes it possible for  something  to be useful-that is, to  the Tao.  This  is what  Kafka  was after  with  his desire "to   hammer  a  table to\'ad gether  with  painstaking craftsmanship and, at  the same time, to do nothing-not in such  a way  that  someone  could  say 'Ham-\
\
\li2940mering is nothing  to him,' but 'To  him, hammering is real ham\'ad mering and at the same time nothing,'  which  would  have made the hammering even bolder, more determined,  more  real, and, \f5\fs22 if \f7\fs20 you like, more insane." This is the resolute, fanatical mien which students  have when  they  study;  it is the strangest  mien imagin\'ad able. The scribes, the students, are out of breath; they fairly race along. ''Often the official dictates in such  a low  voice  that  the scribe cannot  even hear it sitting down; then he has to  jump up, catch  the  dictation,  quickly  sit  down  again and  write  it  down, then jump up again and so forth. How strange that is! It is almost incomprehensible!" It  may  be easier to  understand  thls  if  one thinks of the actors in the Nature  Th ater.\
their cues in a flash, and they resemble those assiduous people in other ways as well. Truly, for them "hammering  \fs22 is \fs20 real hammer\'ad ing and at the same time nothing"-provided that  this is part  of their role. They  study  this role, and only a bad actor  would for\'ad get a word  or a movement. For  the members of  the  Oklahoma troupe,  however, the role is their earlier life; hence the "nature"\
\fi140533\sl-192\slmult1
in this Nature  Theater. Its actors  have been redeemed,  but  not\
\sl-312\slmult1
\fs36 so \fs20 the student  whom Karl watches silently  on the balcony  as he\
\sl-216\slmult1
reads  his book, "turning the  pages, occasionally  looking  some\'ad\
\sl240\slmult1
thing up in another  book which  he always snatched  up quick as a flash, and  frequently   making  notes \fs22 in \fs20 a notebook,  which  he always did with  his face surprisingly  close to the paper_,\
\fi306
Kafka  does not grow  tired of representing  the  \f4\i\fs22 gestus \f7\i0\fs20 in \'b7this fashlon,  but  he  invariably  does  so  with  astonishment.  K.  has rightly  been compared  with  the Good  Soldier Schweik;  the one is astonished at everythlng,  the other  at  nothing.  The  invention of the film and the phonograph  came in an age of maximum alienation of men from one another, of unpredictably intervening relationships  which  have  become  their  only  ones. Experiments\
\fi5
have proved that a man does not recognize his own  walk on the screen or his own voice on the phonograph.  The  situation of the subject  in such experiments l.s  Kafka's situation;  this is what  di\'ad rects  him to learning, where  he may encounter  fragments  of his own  existence, fragments  that are still within  the  context  of the role.  He  might  catch  hold  of  the  lost  \f4\i\fs22 gestus  \f7\i0\fs20 the  way  Peter\
\
\fi140533\li3340\ql
\f4\i\fs16 131\
\
\li3020\fs18 1\fs20 Jluminations\
\fi5\li2640\qj
\f7\i0 Schlemihl caught hold of the shadow he had sold. He might un\'ad derstand  himself, but  what  an  enormous  effort  would  be  re\'ad quired! It \f4\i\fs24 is \f7\i0\fs20 a tempest that blows from  the land of oblivion, and learning  is a cavalry  attack  against it. Thus  the  beggar  on  the corner  bench  rides  toward  his past in  order  to  catch  hold  of\
\fi11\li2620himself in the figure of the fleeing king. This  ride, which is long enough  for  a life, corresponds  to life, which  is too short  for  a ride-"... until one shed one's spurs, for  there  were  no spurs, threw  away  the reins, for  there  were  no  reins, and  barely saw the land before one as a smoothly mown heath, with  the horse's neck and head already gone." This is the fulfillmeru of the fan\'ad tasy about the blessed horseman who rushes toward  the past on an untrammeled, happy  journey, no longer a burden  on his race horse. :8ut accursed  is the  rider  who \f5 is \f7 chained  to  his nag be\'ad cause he has set himself a goal for  the future,  even though  it is as close as the coal cel1ar-a cursed\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1
them. "Seated on the bucket,  my hands up on  the  handle, with\
\fi5\sl240\slmult1\li2580\qc
the simplest kind of bridle, I propel myself with difficulty d wn the stairs; but  once down  below, my  bucket  ascends, superbly, superbly;  camels lying flat on the ground  do not  rise any  more handsomely  as they  shake  themselves under  the  sticks of  their drivers."  There  is no  more  hopeless vista than  that  of  ''the  re\'ad gions of the ice mountains" in which the bucket  rider drops out of sight forever. From the "nethermost  regions of death"  blows the wind that is favorable to him, the same wind which so often blows from  the  prehistoric  world  in  Kafka's works, and  which also propels the boat of the hunter Gracchus.  "At  mysteries and sacrifices, among Greeks  as well as barbarians,''  writes  Plutarch, "it  is taught  that  there  must be two  primary  essences and  two opposing forces, one  of  which  points to  the  right  and  straight ahead, whereas  the  other  turns  around  and  drives  back."  Re\'ad versal is the direction of learning which transforms existence into writing. Its teacher is Bucephalus, "the new attorney," who takes the road back without  the powerful Alexander-which means, rid of  the  onrushing  conqueror. "His  flanks free  and  unhampered by the thighs of a rider, under a quiet lamp far from  the din of\
\
\fi140533\li2980\ql
\f4\i\fs16 138\
\
\li3180Franz Kit\{ ka\
\
\li2820\qj
\f7\i0\fs20 Alexander's  battles,  he  reads  and  turns  the   pages  of  our  old books."\
\fi311\li2780Werner  Kraft   once  wrote  an  interpretation  of  this  story. After  giving careful  attention  to every  detail of  the text, Kraft notes: "Nowhere else in literature  is there  such  a powerful  and penetrating  criticism of the myth in its full scope." According  to Kraft,  Kafka  does not  use the  word  "justice,"  yet  it  is  justice which  serves as the  point  of departure  for  his critique  of  the myth. But once we have reached this point, we are in danger  of missing Kafka by stopping  here. Is it really the law which  could thus be invoked against the myth in the name of  justice? No, as a legal scholar Bucephalus remains true  to his origins, except  that he does not seem to be practicing law-and this is probably some\'ad thing new, in Kafka's sense, for both Bucephalus and the bar. The law which is studied and not practiced  any longer  is the gate to justice.\
\fi300
The  gate to  justice is learning. And yet Kafka does not  dare attach  to this learning the promises which  tradition  has attached to  the study  of the Torah.  His assistants are sextons who  have lost their  house of prayer,  his students are pupils who  have lost the  Holy  Writ. Now  there is nothing  to support  them  on their "untrammeled, happy  journey."  Kafka, however,  has found  the law  of  his  journey-at least on  one  occasion  he  succeeded  in bringing  its breath-taking  speed in line with  the slow  narrative pace that he presumably sought all his life. He  expressed this in a little  prose  piece which  is his most  perfect  creation  not  only because it is an interpretation.\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1\li3080\ql
''Without ever boasting of it, Sancho Panza succeeded in the\
\fi11\sl240\slmult1\li2780\qj
course of years, by supplying a lot of romances of chivalry and adventure  for  the evening and night  hours, in so diverting  from him his demon, whom he later called Don Quixote, that his demon thereupon  freely  performed  the  maddest  exploits, which,  how\'ad ever, lacking a preordained  object, which  Sancho  Panza himself was supposed to have been, did no one any harm. A free man, Sancho Panza philosophically followed Don Quixote  on his cru\'ad sades, perhaps out of a sense of responsibility,  and  thus enjoyed a great  and profitable entertainment  to the end of his days."\
\
\fi140533\li3180\ql
\f4\i IJ!J\
\
\li3000Illuminations\
\fi300\li2700\qj
\f7\i0 Sancho Panza, a sedate fool and clumsy assistant, sent his rider on ahead; Bucephalus outlived his. Whether it is a man or a horse is no longer  so important,  \fs24 if \fs20 only  the  burden  is removed from the back.\
\
\fi140533\sl-576\slmult1\li2840\ql
\f5\fs50 +\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li2860\f4\i\fs32 Some  Reflections on  Xajka\bullet \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\fi306\li2840\qj
\f7\i0\fs22 Kafka's work is an ellipse with foci that are far apart and are determined, on the one hand, by mystical experience (in particu\'ad lar, the experience of tradition) and, on the other, by the experi\'ad ence of the modern big-city dweller. In speaking of the experi\'ad ence of the big-city dweller, \f5\fs20 I\f7\fs22 have a variety of things in mind. On the one hand, I think of the modern citizen who knows that he is at the mercy of a vast machinery of officialdom whose func\'ad tioning is directed by authorities that remain nebulous to the executive organs. let alone to the people they  deal with.  (It  \fs20 is \fs22 known that  one level of meaning in the novels, particularly in \f4\i\fs20 The Trial, \f7\i0\fs22 is encompassed by this.) When \f5\fs20 I \f7\fs22 refer to the modern big-city dweller, \f5\fs20 I\f7\fs22 am  speaking also of the contemporary  of to\'ad day's physicists. If one reads the following passage from Edding\'ad ton's \f4\i\fs20 The Nature of the Physical World,  \f7\i0\fs22 one can virtually hear Kafka speak.\
\
\fi140533\li3120\ql
\fs20 I am standing on the threshold about to enter a room. It is a com-\
\
\li3080\fs18 \bullet  This  text is contained  in a letter  to Gerhard  Scholem, dated  June  \fs12 I 1,\
\sl-192\slmult1\li2840\fs16 l9J8.\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li3220\f4\i\fs12 141\
\
\li3020\fs20 llluminatiom\
\
\fi5\sl216\slmult1\li2660\qj
\f7\i0 plicated business. In the :first place I must shove against an atmosphere pressing with a force of fourteen pounds on every square inch of \f4\i\fs18 my \f7\i0\fs20 body. I must make sure  of landing on a plank travelling at twenty miles a second round the sun-a fraction of a second too early or too late, the  plank would  be miles away. I must do this whilst hanging from  a round  planet head outward  into  space, and  with  a wind  of aether  blowing at  no one knows how many  miles a second through every interstice of \f4\i\fs18 my \f7\i0\fs20 body. The  plank has no solidity of substance. To  step  on it is like stepping  on a swarm  of flies. Shall I not slip through?  Not if I make the venture one of the flies hits me and gives a boost up again; I fall again and am knocked  upwards by  another \f4\i\fs16 By; \f7\i0\fs20 and so on. I may hope that  the  net result will be that  I remain about steady; but if unfortunately  I should slip through  the floor or be boosted too violently up to the ceiling, the occurrence  would  be, not a violation of the laws of Nature, but a rare coincidence....\
\fi266
Verilyt it is easier for a camel to pass through  the eye of a needle than for  a scientific man  to pass through  a door. And  whether  the door be bam  door or church  door it might  be wiser that he should consent to be an ordinary man and walk in rather than wait till all the difficulties involved in a really scientific ingress are resolved.\bullet \
\
\fi311\sl240\slmult1\li2640\ql
In  all of  literature  I  know  no passage which  has the  Kafka stamp  to the same extent. Without any  effort  one could  match almost every  passage of  this physical  perplexity  with  sentences from  Kafka's prose pieces, and there is much  to indicate  that  in so doing  many  of  the  most "incomprehensible, passages would be accommodated.  Therefore, if one  says-as I  have  just said\'ad that  there  was a  tremendous  tension  between  those  of  Kafka's experiences that correspond to present-day physics and his mysti\'ad cal ones, only a half-truth  is stated. What  is actually and in a very literal  sense wildly  incredible  in Kafka  is that  this most recent world of experience was conveyed to him precisely by this mysti\'ad cal tradition.  This, of course, could  not have happened  without devastating processes (to  be discussed presently)  within  this tra\'ad dition. The  long and the short  of it is that  apparently  an appeal had to be made to the forces of this tradition  if an individual \f4\i (by \f7\i0 the name of Franz Kafka)  was to be confronted with that reality of ours which realizes itself theoretically, for example, in modem\
\
\fi140533\sl-216\slmult1\li2900\bullet  Arthur Stanley Eddington, \f4\i The Nature of the Physical World,  \f7\i0 New\
\sl-168\slmult1\li2640\qj
York-Cambridge, \fs18 19:9, \fs20 p. 34z. Quoted by Benjamin in German translation.\
\fi5\sl240\slmult1\li2880\fs22 physics, and practically in  the technology  of  modem  warfare. What  I mean to say is that this reality can virtually  no longer be experienced by an \f4\i\fs20 individual, \f7\i0\fs22 and that Kafka's world, fre\'ad quently  of  such  playfulness and  interlaced  with  angels, is the exact complement of his era which is preparing to do away with the inhabitants of this planet on a considerable scale. The  experi\'ad ence which corresponds to that of Kafka, the private individual, will probably not become accessible to the masses until such time as they are being done away with.\
\fi294\sl216\slmult1
Kafka lives in a \f4\i\fs24 complementa:ry \f7\i0\fs22 world. (In  this he is closely related to Klee, whose work in painting is just as essentially \f4\i soli\'ad \fs20 tttry \f7\i0\fs22 as Kafka's work is in literature.) Kafka offered the comple\'ad ment without being aware of what surrounded  him. \f5\fs24 If \f7\fs22 one says that  he perceived what  was to come without  perceiving what exists in the present, one should add that he perceived it essen\'ad tially' as an \f4\i\fs20 indi'Vidual \f7\i0\fs22 affected by \fs20 it. \fs22 His gestures of terror  are given scope by the marvelous \f4\i\fs24 margin \f7\i0\fs22 which the catastrophe will not grant us. But his experience was based solely on the tradition to which Kafka surrendered; there was no far-sightedness or "prophetic vision." Kafka listened to tradition, and he who listens hard does not see.\
\fi306\sl240\slmult1
The  main reason why  this listening demands such effort  is that only the most indistinct sounds reach the listener. There is no doctrine that one could absorb, no knowledge that one could preserve. The  things that want to be caught as they rush by are not meant for anyone's ears. This implies a state of affairs which negatively  characterizes  Kafka's  works  with  great   precision. (Here  a negative characterization probably is altogether more fruitful than a positive one.) Kafka's work presents a sickness of tradition. Wisdom has sometimes been defined as the epic side of truth. Such a definition stamps wisdom as inherent in tradition; \fs24 it \fs22 is truth in its haggadic consistency.\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1\li3080\ql
It  is this consistency of  truth  that  has been lost. Kafka was\
\li2880\qj
far from being the first to face this situation. Many had accom\'ad\
\fi5
modated  themselves to  it,  clinging to  truth  or  whatever  they happened to regard as truth and, with a more or less heavy heart, forgoing its transmissibility. Kafka's real genius was that he tried\
\
\fi140533\sl240\slmult1\li2980\ql
\f4\i\fs20 Illuminations\
\
\li2620\qj
\f7\i0\fs22 something entirely new: he sacrificed truth for the sake of cling\'ad ing to its transmissibility, its haggadic element. Kafka's writings are  by  their  nature  parables. But it  \f5\fs20 is \f7\fs22 their  misery and  their beauty that they had to become \f4\i\fs24 more \f7\i0\fs22 than parables. They do not modestly lie at the feet of the doctrine, as the Haggadah lies at the feet of the Halakah. Though apparently reduced to sub\'ad mission, they unexpectedly raise a mighty paw against it.\
\sl-240\slmult1\li2920\ql
This is why, in regard to Kafka, we can no longer speak of\
\fi5\sl240\slmult1\li2620wisdom. Only the products of its decay remain. There are two: one is the rumor about the true things (a sort of theological whis.. pered intelligence dealing with matters discredited and obsolete) ; the other product of this diathesis is folly-which, to be sure, has utterly squandered the substance of wisdom, but preserves its at\'ad tractiveness and assurance, which rumor invariably lacks. Folly lies at the heart of Kafka's favorites-from  Don Quixote via the assistants to the animals. (Being an animal presumably meant to him only to have given up human form and human wisdom from a kind of shame-as shame may keep a gentleman who finds him self in a disreputable tavern from wiping his glass clean.) This much Kafka was absolutely sure of: first, that someone must be a fool if he is to help; second, that only a fool's help is real help. The on1y uncertain thing is whether such help can still do a hu\'b7 man being any good. It is more likely to help the angels (com\'ad pare the passage about the angels who get something to do) who could do without  help. Thus, as Kafka puts it, there is an in\'ad finite amount of hope, but not for us. This statement r ally\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1\li2640tains Kafka's hope; it is the source of his radiant serenity.\
\fi300\sl216\slmult1\qj
I transmit to you this somewhat dangerously compressed image-in  the manner of perspective reduction:-with all the more ease as you may sharpen \fs20 it  \fs22 by means of the views I have deve1- oped from different aspects in my Kafka essay in the \f4\i\fs20 ]iidische Rundschau.\bullet \f7\i0\fs22 My  main criticism of that study today is its apolo\'ad getic character. To do justice to the figure of Kafka in its purity and its peculiar beauty one must never lose sight of one thing:\
\
\fi140533\sl240\slmult1\li2900\ql
\fs18 \bullet  See the preceding essay.\
\
\li3020\f4\i\fs16 144\
\
\li2900\qj
\f7\i0\fs20 it is the purity  and beauty of a failure. The circumstances  of this failure are manifold. One is tempted  to say: once he was certain of eventual  failure, everything  worked  out  for  him  \f4\i\fs22 en route \f7\i0\fs20 as in a dream. There  is nothing  more  memorable  than  the  fervor with which Kafka emphasized his failure.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\li3300\ql
\f4\i\fs16 145\
\
\sl-1007\slmult1\li3100\f5\i0\fs96 \bullet \
\sl-312\slmult1
\f4\i\fs36 'What  'Js  Epic 'Jheater'\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li3080\f7\i0\fs16 THE  RELAXED AUDIENCE\
\
\fi0\li2780\qj
\fs20 "There is nothing more pleasant than to lie on a sofa and read a novel," wrote a nineteenth-century narrator, indicating the great extent to whlch a work of fiction can relax the reader who is en\'ad joying it. The  common image of a man attending  a theatrical performance  is the opposite: one pictures a man who follows the action  with  every  fiber of his being at rapt  attention.  The  con\'ad cept of the epic theater, originated \f5\fs22 by \f7\fs20 Brecht as the theoretician of his poetic  practice, indicates above all that this theater  desires an audience that is relaxed and follows the action without strain. This  audience, to be sure, always appears as a collective, and this differentiates it from the reader, who is alone with  his text. Also, this audience, being a collective, will usually feel impelled  to re\'ad act  promptly. This  reaction, according  to Brecht, ought  to  be a well-considered  and  therefore  a relaxed one-in short,  the  reac\'ad tion of people who  have an interest  in the matter. Two  objects are provided  for  this interest. The  first is the action;  it has to be such that the audience can keep a check on it at crucial  places on the basis of its own  experience. The  second is the  performance; it should be mounted artistically in a pellucid manner. (This  man-\
\
\fi11\li2720ner  of  presentation  is anything  but  artless; actually,  it  presup\'ad poses artistic sophistication and acumen on the part of the direc\'ad tor.)  Epic theater appeals to an interest group who "do not think without  reason." Brecht does not lose sight of the masses, whose limited practice of thinking is probably  described by this phrase. In the endeavor  to interest  the audience in the theater  expertly, but definitely not by way of mere cultural involvement, a politi\'ad cal will has prevailed.\
\
\
\fi140533\li3020\ql
\fs16 THE   PLOT\
\
\fi306\li2720\qj
\fs20 The  epic theater  purposes to ''deprive  the stage  of \fs22 its \fs20 sensa\'ad tion derived from subject  matter."  Thus  an old story  will often do more for it than a new one. Brecht  has considered  the  ques\'ad tion of whether  the incidents that are presented by the epic thea\'ad ter should not  already be familiar. The  theater  would  have the same relationship to the plot as a ballet teacher  has to his pupil: his first task would be to loosen her joints to the greatest possible extent. This is how the Chinese theater  actua1ly proceeds. In his essay ''The Fourth  Wall of China" \f4\i (Life and Letters Today, \f7\i0 Vol.\
\fi140533\sl-216\slmult1
XV, No. \f4\i 6, \f7\i0 1936), Brecht states what  he owes to this theater. \f5\fs22 If\
\sl-240\slmult1
\f7\fs20 the  theater  is to  cast about  for  familiar events, "historical  inci\'ad\
\sl240\slmult1
dents would  be the most suitable." Their  epic extension through the style of acting, the placards and captions, is intended  to purge them of the sensational.\
\fi306
In this vein Brecht takes the life of Galileo as the subject  of his latest play. Brecht presents Galileo primarily as \fs22 a \fs20 great teacher who not only  teaches a new physics, but does so in a new way. In his hands, experiments are not only an achievement of science, but a tool of pedagogy  \f5\fs18 as  \f7\fs20 well. The  main emphasis of this play is not on GaJileo's recantation; rather, the truly  epic process must be sought in what \fs22 is \fs20 evident from the labeling of the penultimate scene:  \fs12 "1\f4\i\fs20 6 \f7\i0 33 to  1642. As  a prisoner of  the  Inquisition,  Galileo continues his scientific work until his death. He succeeds in smug\'ad gling \fs22 his \fs20 main works out of Italy."\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1\li3020\ql
Epic theater is in league with the course of time in an entirely\
\sl240\slmult1\li2720\qj
different  way  from  that  of  the tragic  theater.  Because suspense\
\
\li3160\ql
\f4\i What Is Epic Theater?\
\sl216\slmult1\li2780\qj
\f7\i0\fs22 belongs less to  the outcome than to  the individual events, this theater can cover the greatest spans of time. (The  same is true of the earlier mystery plays. The dramaturgy of \f4\i\fs20 Oedipus \f7\i0\fs22 or \f4\i\fs20 The Wild Duck \f7\i0\fs22 constitutes the counterpole of epic dramaturgy.)\
\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li3080\ql
\fs16 THE   UNTRAGIC   HERO\
\
\fi306\sl216\slmult1\li2780\qj
\fs22 The  French classical theater made room in the midst of the players for persons of rank, who had their armchairs on the open stage. To  us this seems inappropriate. According to the concept of the "dramatic element" with which we are familiar, \fs20 it \fs22 seemed inappropriate to attach to the action on the stage a nonparticipat\'ad ing  third  party  as a  dispassionate observer  or  "thinker."  Yet Brecht often had something like that in mind. One can go even further and say that Brecht made an attempt to make the thinker, or even the wise man, the hero of  the drama. From  this very point of view one can define his theater as epic theater. This at\'ad tempt is taken furthest in the character of Galy Gay, the packer. Galy Gay, the protagonist of the play \f4\i\fs20 A Man's \fs16 tt \fs20 Man, \f7\i0\fs22 is nothing but an exhibit of the contradictions which make up our society. It may not be too bold to regard the wise man in the Brechtian sense as the perfect showcase of its dialectics. In any case, Galy Gay is a wise man. Plato already recognized the undramatic quality of that most excellent man, the sage. In his Dialogues he took him to the threshold of the drama; in his \f4\i\fs20 Phaidon, \f7\i0\fs22 to  the threshold of the passion play. The medieval Christ, who also rep\'ad resented the wise man (we find this in the Early Fathers), is the untragic  hero  \f4\i\fs24 par   \fs20 excellence. \f7\i0\fs22 But in the secular drama  of  the West, too, the search for the untragic hero has never ceased. In always new ways, and frequently n\
\fi11
cians, this drama  has differed from  the  authentic-that is, the Greek-form of tragedy. This important but poorly marked road, which may here serve as the image of a tradition, went via Ros\'ad witha and the mystery plays in the Middle Ages, via Gryphius and Calderon in the Baroque age; later we may trace it in Lenz and Grabbe, and finally in Strindberg. Scenes in Shakespeare are its roadside monuments, and Goethe crosses it in the second part\
\
\fi140533\sl240\slmult1\li3160\ql
\f4\i\fs14 149\
\fi5\sl216\slmult1\li2720\qj
\f7\i0\fs22 of \f4\i Faust. \f7\i0 It is a European road, but a German one as well-pro\'ad vided that we may speak of a road and not of a secret smugglers' path by which the legacy of the medieval and the Baroque drama has reached us. It is this mule track, neglected and overgrown, which comes to light today in the dramas of Brecht.\
\
\
\fi140533\sl240\slmult1\li3020\ql
\fs16 THE  INTERRUPTION\
\
\li3000\fs22 Brecht differentiates his epic theater from the dramatic thea\'ad\
\sl-240\slmult1\li2700\qj
ter in the narrower sense, whose theory was formulatd\
\fi5
totle. Appropriately, Brecht introduces his art  of  the drama as non-Aristotelian,  just as Riemann introduced  a  non-Euclidian\
geometry. This analogy may bring out the fact  that it is not a matter of competition between the theatrical forms in question.\
\fi11
Riemann eliminated the parallel postulate; Brecht's drama elim\'ad inated  the  Aristotelian catharsis, the  purging  of  the  emotions through empathy with the stirring fate of the hero.\
\fi306
The special character of the relaxed interest of the audience for which the performances of the epic theater are intended is\
\fi5\li2680the fact that hardly any appeal is made to the empathy of the spectators. Instead, the art of the epic theater consists in produc\'ad\
\sl216\slmult1
ing astonishment rather than empathy. To  put it succinctly: in\'ad stead of identifying with the characters, the audience should be educated to be astonished at the circumstances under which they function.\
\fi306
The  task of the epic theater, according to  Brecht, is not so much the development of actions as the representation of condi\'ad tions. This presentation does not mean reproduction as the theo\'ad reticians of Naturalism understood it. Rather, the  truly  impor\'ad tant thing is to discover the conditions of life. (One  might say just as well: to alienate [\f4\i\fs20 verfremden] \f7\i0\fs22 them.) This discovery (alienation) of conditions takes place through  the interruption of happenings. The  most primitive example would be a family scene. Suddenly a stranger enters. The mother was just about to seize a bronze bust and hurl it at her daughter; the father was in the act of opening the window in order to call a policeman. At that moment the stranger appears in the  doorway. This  means\
\
\fi140533\sl240\slmult1\li3080\ql
\f4\i\fs12 1)0\
\
\li3280\fs20 What Is Epic The11ter?\
\fi5\li2880\qj
\f7\i0\fs22 that the stranger is confronted with the situation as with a star\'ad tling picture:  troubled faces, an open window, the furniture  in disarray. But there are eyes to which even more ordinary scenes of middle-class life look almost equally startling.\
\
\
\fi140533\li3180\ql
\f8\fs18 THE QUOTABLE GESTURE\
\
\fi311\li2880\qj
\f7\fs22 In one of  his didactic poems on dramatic art  Brecht  says: "The effect of every sentence was waited for and laid bare. And the waiting lasted until the crowd  had carefully weighed our sentence." In short, the play was interrupted.  One can go even further and remember that interruption is one of the fundamen\'ad tal devices of all structuring. It  goes far  beyond the sphere of art. To  give only one example, it is the  basis of quotation. To quote a text involves the interruption of its context. It is there\'ad fore understandable that the epic theater, being based on inter\'ad ruption, is, in a specific sense, a quotable one. There  is nothing special about the quotability of its texts. It is different with the gestures which \f5 fit \f7 into the course of the play.\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1\li3180\ql
"Making gestures quotable" is one of the substantial achieve\'ad\
\fi5\sl240\slmult1\li2860\qj
ments of the epic theater. An actor  must be able to space his gestures the way a typesetter produces spaced type. This  effect may be achieved, for  instance, by  an actor's  quoting  his own gesture on the stage. Thus we saw in \f4\i\fs24 Happy \fs20 End  \f7\i0\fs22 how Carola Neher, acting a sergeant in the Salvation Army, sang, by way of\
proselytizing, a song in a sailors' tavern that  was more  appro\'ad priate there than it would have been in a church, and then had to quote this song and act out the gestures before a council of the Salvation Army. Similarly, in \f4\i\fs20 The Measure Taken \f7\i0\fs22 the party tribunal \f5 is \f7 given not only the report  of  the comrades, but also the acting out of some of the gestures of the comrade they are accusing. What is a device of the subtlest kind in the epic theater generaHy becomes an immediate purpose in the specific case of the didactic play. Epic theater is by definition a gestic theater. For the more frequently we interrupt someone in the act of act\'ad ing, the more gestures result.\
\
\fi140533\li3260\ql
\f4\i\fs12 ljl\
\
\li2900\f7\i0\fs16 THE  DIDACTIC PLAY\
\
\fs20 In every  insta ce,\
\fi5\li2600much  as for  the spectators. The  didactic  play is a sp cial largely   because it  facilitates  and  suggests  the  interchange   be\'ad tween  audience  and actors  and vice versa through   the  extreme paucity  of the mechanical equipment. Every spectator  is enabled to  become  a  participant.  And  it  is  indeed  easier  to  play  the "teacher'\
\fi311\li2580In  the  first  version  of  \f4\i Lindbergh/lug  \f7\i0 (Lindbergh's Flight), which  appeared  in a periodical, the flier was still presented  as a hero. That  version was intended  as his glorification. The  second version-and  this is  revealing-owes its  origin  to  the  fact  that Brecht revised himself. What  enthusiasm there was on both con tinents  on  the  days  following  this flight!  But  this  enthusiasm petered  out as a mere sensation. In \f4\i The Flight of the Lindberghs \f7\i0 Brecht  endeavors  to  refract  the  spectrum  of  the  "thrill" (\f4\i Er\'ad lebnis)  \f7\i0 in  order  to  derive  from  it  the  hues  of  "experience" \f4\i (Erfahrung)-the \f7\i0 experience  that  could  be obtained  only  from Lindbergh's  effort,  not  from  the  excitement  of  the  public,  and which  was to be conveyed  to "the  Lindberghs."\
\fi300\li2600\qj
T. E. Lawrence, the author  of \f4\i The Seven PiUars of Wisdom, \f7\i0 wrote  to Robert  Graves  when he  joined the air force  that such a step was for  modem  man what entering  a monastery  was for medieval man. In this remark  we perceive the same tension that we find in \f4\i The Flight of the Lindberghs \f7\i0 and the later  didactic plays. A clerical sternness is applied  to instruction  in  a modern technique-here, that of aviation; later, that of the class struggle. This second application may be seen most fully in \f4\i Mother. \f7\i0 It was a  particularly   daring  undertaking  to  keep  a social  drama  free of the effects which  empathy  produces and which  the  audience was  accustomed  to.  Brecht  knew  this  and  expressed  it  in  an epistolary poem that he sent to a New York workingmen's  thea\'ad ter  when  \f4\i Mother \f7\i0 was  produced  there.  "We have  been  asked: Will a worker  understand this? Will he be able to do without  his accustomed opiate, his mental participation  in someone else's up\'ad rising, the rise of others; the illusion which  whips him up for  a\
\
\fi140533\li2980\ql
\f4\i\fs12 1)2\
\
\li3320\fs18 What Is Epic Theater?\
\sl-240\slmult1\li2920\qj
\f7\i0\fs22 few  hours and  leaves him all the  more  exhausted, filled with vague memories and even vaguer hopes?"\
\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li3220\ql
\fs16 THE   ACTOR\
\
\fi0\li2900\qj
\fs22 Like the pictures in a \fs24 film, \fs22 epic theater moves in spurts. Its basic form  is that  of  the  shock with  which  the  single, well\'ad defined situations of the play collide. The songs, the captions, the lifeless conventions set off one situation from another. This brings about intervals which, if anything, impair the illusion of the audi\'ad ence and paralyze its readiness for empathy. These intervals are reserved for the spectators' critical reaction-to the actions of the players and to the way in which they are presented. As to the manner of presentation, the actor,s task in the epic theater is to demonstrate through  his acting that he is cool and relaxed. He too has hardly any use for empathy. For this kind of acting the "player" of the dramatic theater is not always fully prepared. Perhaps the most open-minded approach  to  epic theater. is to\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1\li2860-think of it in terms of "putting on a show."\
\li3200\ql
Brecht wrote: "The actor must show his subject, and he must\
\sl216\slmult1\li2900\qj
show himself. Of course, he shows his subject  by showing him\'ad self, and he shows himself by showing his subject. Although the two coincide, they must not coincide in such a way that the dif\'ad ference between the two  tasks disappears." In  other  words: an actor should reserve for himself the possibility of stepping out of character artistically. At the proper moment he should insist on portraying a man who reflects about his part. It would be erron\'ad eous to think at such a moment of Romantic Irony, as employed by Tieck in his \f4\i\fs20 Purs in Boots. \f7\i0\fs22 This irony  has no didactic aim. Basically, it demonstrates only the philosophic sophistication of the author who, in writing his plays, always remembers that in the end the world may turn out to be a theater.\
\fi294
To  what extent artistic and political interests coincide on the scene of epic theater will become manifest in the style of acting appropriate to this genre. A case in point is Brecht's cycle \f4\i\fs20 The Private Life of the Master Race. \f7\i0\fs22 It is easy to see that if a German actor in exile were assigned the part of an SS man or a member\
\
\fi140533\sl240\slmult1\li3280\ql
\f4\i\fs16 IJ3\
\fi22\li2600\qj
\f7\i0\fs22 of the People's Court, his feelings about it would be quite differ\'ad ent from those of a devoted father and husband asked to portray Moliere's Don Juan. For the former, empathy can hardly be re\'ad garded as an appropriate  method, since he presumably cannot identify with the murderers of his fellow fighters. Another mode of performance, which calls for detachment, would in such cases be right and fitting and particularly successful. This is the epic stagecraft.\
\
\fi140533\li2900\ql
\fs16 THE\f5\fs18 ' \f7\fs16 ATER  ON  \f4\i\fs14 A \f7\i0\fs16 DAIS\
\
\fi0\li2580\qj
\fs22 The  aims of the epic theater can be defined more easily in terms of the stage than of a new drama. Epic theater allows for a  circumstance which  has been  too  little  noticed. It  may  be called the filling \fs20 in \fs22 of the orchestra pit. The  abyss which sepa\'ad rates the players from the audience as it does the dead from the living; the abyss whose silence in a play heightens the sublimity, whose resonance in an opera heightens the intoxication-this abyss, of all elements of the theater the one that bears the most indelible traces of its ritual origin, has steadily decreased in sig\'ad nificance. The stage is still raised, but it no longer rises from an unfathomable depth; it has become a dais. The didactic play and the epic theater are attempts to sit down on a dais.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\fi140533\li2980\ql
\f4\i\fs16 1$4\
\li3200\f7\i0\fs46 +\
\
\li3180\f4\i\fs34 On Some  JW'oti\{s in Baudelaire..;\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\f5\i0\fs16 I\
\
\fi164\li2880\qj
\f7\fs22 _       Baudelaire envisaged readers to whom  the  reading of  lyric poetry would present difficulties. The introductory  poem of the \f4\i Fleurs du mal \f7\i0 is addressed to these readers. Will  power and the ability to concentrate are not their strong points; what they pre\'ad fer is sensua] pleasures; they are familiar with the "spleen" which kills interest and  receptiveness. It  is strange  to  come across a lyric poet who addresses himself to this, the least rewarding type of audience. There is of course a ready explanation for it. Baude\'ad laire was anxious to be understood; he dedicates his book to kindred spirits. The poem addressed to the reader ends with the salutation: \f4\i "Hypocrite  lecteur,-mon semblable,-mon frere!'' \f7\i0 It might be more fruitful to put it another way and say: Baudelaire wrote a book which from the very beginning had little prospect of becoming an immediate popular success. The  kind of reader he envisaged is described in  the  introductory   poem, and  this turned out to have been a far-sighted  judgment. He  was even.. tually to find the reader at whom his work was aimed. This sit\'ad uation, the fact, in other words, that the climate for lyric poetry has become increasingly inhospitable, is attested to, among other\
\
\fi140533\li3260\qc
\f4\i\fs12 l)j\
\fi22\li2580\qj
\f7\i0\fs20 things, by  three  factors.  In  the  first  place, the  lyric  poet  has ceased to represent  the poet \f4\i\fs22 per se. \f7\i0\fs20 He no longer is a "minstrel," as Lamartine still was; he has 'become a representative  of a genre. (Verlaine  is a concrete  example of  this specialization; Rimbaud must already be regarded as an esoteric figure, a poet who main\'ad tained an \f4\i ex officio \f7\i0 distance  between  his public and  his work.) Secondly, there  has been no success on a mass scale in lyric po\'ad etry  since Baudelaire.  (The  lyric  poetry  of  Victor  Hugo  was still able to .set off powerful reverberations when it first appeared. In Germany,  Heine's \f4\i Buch der Lieder \f7\i0 marks a watershed.)  As a result, a third  factor  was the greater coolness of the public even toward  the lyric  poetry  that  had been handed  down  as part  of its  own  cultural   heritage.  The   period  in  question  dates  back roughly  to  the  middle  of  the  last century.  Throughout it  the fame  of  the  \f4\i Fleurs du mal   \f7\i0 has constantly  spread.  This  book, which  was expected to be read by the least indulgent  of readers and which was at first read by few indulgent  ones, has, over the decades, acquired  the stature  of a classic and become one of the most widely  printed  ones as well.\
\fi306\sl-240\slmult1\li2600\ql
\f5\fs22 If \f7\fs20 conditions  for. a  positive reception  of  lyric  poetry  have become  less favorable,  it  is reasonable to  assume that  only  in\
\fi140533\sl240\slmult1\li2560\qc
rare instances is lyric  poetry  in rapport  with  the  experience of its readers. This may be due to a change in the structure of their experience. Even  though  one may approve  of this development, one may be all the more hard put to it to say precisely in what respect there may have been a change. Thus  one turns to philos\'ad ophy for an answer, which brings one up against a strange situa\'ad tion. Since the  end of  the last century,  philosophy  has made a series of  attempts  to  lay  hold  of  the  "true" experience  as op\'ad posed to the kind that  manifests itself in the standardized, dena\'ad tured life of the civilized masses. It is customary  to classify these efforts under the heading of a philosophy of life. Their  point of departure,  understandably  enough, was not man,s life in society. What  they invoked was poetry, preferably  nature, and, most re\'ad cently,  the age of myths. Dilthey's  book  \f4\i Das Erlebnis und die Dichtung \f7\i0 represents one of the earliest of these efforts which end with  Klages and Jung;  both  made common  cause with  Fascism.\
\
\li3280\ql
\f4\i On Some Motifs in Baudelai'l'e\
\li2900\f7\i0 Towering above  this  literature  is  Bergson,s  early  monumental work,  \f4\i Matiere et memoir. \f7\i0 More  than  the  others,  it  preserves links with  empirical research. It is oriented  toward  biology. The title suggests that it regards the structure of memory as decisive for  the philosophical pattern  of experience. Experience is indeed a matter of tradition, in collective existence as well as private life. It is less the product  of facts firmly anchored  in memory than of a convergence  in  memory  of  accumulated  and  frequently un\'ad conscious  data. It  is, however, not  at  all Bergson's intention  to attach  any specific historical label to  memory.  On the contrary, he rejects any historical determination  of memory. He thus man\'ad ages above all to stay  clear of  that  experience  from  which  his own philosophy evolved or, rather, in reaction  to which it arose. It  was the  inhospitable,  blinding  age  of  big-scale industrialism. In shutting out this experience the eye perceives an experience of\
\fi5\sl-240\slmult1\qj
a  complementary   nature  in the  form  of  its  spontaneous  after\'ad image, as it were. Bergson,s philosophy  represents an attempt  to give  the  details of  this afterimage  and  to  fix it  as a permanent\
\fi140533\sl240\slmult1\li2920record. His philosophy thus indirectly  furnishes a clue to the ex\'ad perience which presented itself to Baudelaire's eyes in its un\'ad distorted  version in the figure of  his reader.\
\
\
\li3200\ql
\f5\fs16 II\
\
\fi306\li2900\qj
\f4\i\fs20 Matiere et memoire \f7\i0 defines the  nature  of  experience  in  the \f4\i duree \f7\i0 in such a way  that  the  reader  is bound  to  conclude  that only  a poet  can be the  adequate subject  of such  an experience. And it was indeed a poet who put Bergson's theory  of experience to the test. Proust's  work  \f4\i\fs22 A la Recherche  du temps perdu \f7\i0\fs20 may be regarded  as an attempt  to  produce  experience  synthetically, as Bergson imagines it, under today's  conditions, for  there  is less and less hope that  \fs22 it \fs20 will come into  being naturally.  Proust,  in\'ad cidentally,  does not evade the question  in his work. He  even in\'ad troduces  a new  factor,  one  that  involves  an immanent  critique of  Bergson.  Bergson  emphasized  the  antagonism  between   the \f4\i vita activa \f7\i0 and the specific \f4\i vita contemplativa \f7\i0 which  arises from memory. But he leads us to believe that  turning  to  the contem-\
\
\fi140533\li3300\ql
\f4\i\fs16 1J7\
\
\li3060\fs20 Illuminatiom\
\fi17\li2660\qj
\f7\i0 plative  actualization  of  the  stream  of  life  is a  matter   of  free choice. From the start Proust indicates his divergent  view termi\'ad nologically. To  him, the \f4\i memoire  pure \f7\i0 of Bergson's theory  be\'ad comes a \f4\i memoire involontaire. \f7\i0 Proust immediately confronts  this involuntary  memory  with  a  voluntary  memory,  one  that  is in the service of the intellect. The  first pages of his great  work are charged  with  making  this  relationship  clear. In  the  reflection which introduces  the term Proust  tells us how poorly, for many years, he remembered  the town  of Combray  in which,  after all, he spent p rt\
\fi34\li2600\qr
of pastry called \f4\i madeleine \f7\i0 (which  he later mentions often)  trans\'ad ported  him back to the  past, whereas before  then  he had been limited  to  the  promptiPgs of  a memory  which  obeyed  the call of attentiveness. This  he calls the \f4\i memoire volontaire, \f7\i0 and it is its characteristic  that  the  information  which  it  gives about  the past retains no trace of it. \f5 "It \f7 is the same with our own  past. In vain we try to conjure it up again; the efforts of our intellect are futile."  Therefore  Proust,  summing  up,  says  that  the  past  is "somewhere  beyond  the reach of the intellect, and unmistakably present in some material object (or in the sensation which such an object  arouses in us),  though  we have no idea which  one it  \fs22 is. \fs20 As for  that  object,  it  depends entirely  on  chance  whether  we come upon it before we die or whether  we never encounter  it." According  to Proust, it is a matter of chance whether  an indi\'ad vidual forms an image of himself, whether  he can take hold of his experience.  It  is by  no  means inevitable  to  be  dependent   on chance  in  this matter.  Man's inner  concerns  do  not  have their issueless private character  by nature. They  do so only  when  he\
\fi5\li2620\qj
is increasingly unable to assimilate the data of the world  around him by way of experience. Newspapers constitute  one of many evidences of  such  an  inability. \f5 If \f7 it  were  the  intention  of  the press to have the reader assimilate the information  it supplies as part of his own experience, it would not achieve its purpose. But its intention  is  just the  opposite,  and  it  is achieved:  to  isolate what happens from the realm in which it could affect the ex\'ad perience of the reader. The  principles of  journalistic infonnation (freshness  of  the  news,  brevity,  comprehensibility,  and,  above\
\
\fi140533\li3320\ql
\f4\i\fs18 On Some Motifs in Baudelaire\
\fi28\li2920\f7\i0\fs22 all; \fs20 lack of connectiobetween the individual  news items)  con\'ad tribute  as much to this as does the make-up of the pages and the paper's style. (Karl Kraus never tired of demonstrating  the great extent to which the linguistic usage of newspapers paralyzed  the imagination of their readers.)  Another  reason for  the isolation of information  from  experience ithat  the  former  does not  enter "tradition., Newspapers  appear  in  large  editions. Few  readers can boast of any information  which  another  reader  may require of him.\
\fi0\li2900\qj
Historically,  the various modes of communication  have com\'ad peted with one another. The  replacement  of the older narration by information,  of information  by sensation, reflects the increas\'ad ing atrophy  of experience. In turn, there is a contrast between all these forms and the story, which is one of the oldest forms of communication. It is not the object of the story  to convey  a happening  \f4\i\fs24 per se) \f7\i0\fs20 which  is the  purpose  of information;  rather,\
\fi140533\sl-216\slmult1\ql
it embeds it in the life of the storyteller  in order  to pass it on as\
\fi5\sl240\slmult1\li2880\qj
experience to those listening. It thus bears the marks of the story\'ad teller much as the earthen  vessel bears the  marks of the potter's hand.\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1\li3180\ql
Proust's  eight-volume  work  conveys  an idea of the efforts  it\
\fi39\sl240\slmult1\li2820\qc
took  to restore  the figure  of the storyteller  to  the  present  gen\'ad eration. Proust  undertook  this assignment with  magnificent con\'ad sistency. From  the outset  this involved  him in the  primary  task of resurrecting  his own childhood, In saying that it was a matter of chance whether  the  problem  could  be solved at all, he gave the  full  measure of  irs difficulty. In  connection  with  these  re\'ad flections  he coined  the  phrase \f4\i mernoire involontaire. \f7\i0 This  con\'ad cept  bears the marks of the situation which  gave rise to it; it  is part  of the inventory  of the individual  who  is isolated in  many ways. Where  there is experience in the strict  sense of the word, certain  contents  of the individual past combine  with  material of the collective  past. The  rituals with  their ceremonies, their  festi\'ad vals  (quite  probably  nowhere  recalled  in  Proust's  work)   kept producing  the  amalgamation of  these two  elements of memory over and over again. They  triggered  recollection  at certain  times and  remained  handles of  memory  for  a  lifetime. In  this  way,\
\
\fi140533\li3240\ql
\f4\i\fs12 1)9\
\
\li3020\fs20 lllumi'lUI.tions\
\li2640\f7\i0 voluntary  and involuntary  recollection  lose their  mutual  exclu\'ad\
\li2600\qc
siveness.\
\
\
\li2920\ql
\f5\fs16 III\
\
\fi328\li2600\f7\fs20 In seeking a more  substantial  definition  of  what  appears  in Proust's  \f4\i\fs22 memoire de l'intelligence \f7\i0\fs20 as a  by-product of  Bergson's theory,  it is well to go  back to Freud.  In  \fs16 1921 \fs20 Freud  published his essay \f4\i\fs22 Beyond the Pleasure Principle, \f7\i0\fs20 which  presents a corre\'ad lation  between  memory  (in  the sense of  the  \f4\i\fs22 memoire involon\'ad taire) \f7\i0\fs20 and consciousness in the form of a hypothesis. The  follow\'ad ing remarks based on it are not intended  to confirm it; we shall have to  content  ourselves with  investigating  the  fruitfulness  of this hypothesis in situations far removed from those which Freud had in  mind when  he wrote.  Freud's  pupils are  more  likely  to have encountered  such situations. Some of Reik's writings  on his own  theory  of memory  are in line with  Proust's  distinction  be\'ad tween involuntary  and voluntary  recollection.  "The  function  of remembrance  [\f4\i\fs22 Gediichtnis]:'  \f7\i0\fs20 Reik writes,  "is the  protection  of impressions; memory  \f4\i\fs22 [Erinnerung] \f7\i0\fs20 aims at  their  disintegration. Remembrance   is  essentially  conservative,  memory  is  destruc\'ad tive." Freud's  fundamental  thought,  on which  these remarks are based, is formulated  by the assumption that uconsciousness comes into  being at  the site of a memory  trace., (For  our  purposes, there  is no substantial difference  between  the  concepts  \f4\i\fs22 Erinne\'ad rung \f7\i0\fs20 and  \f4\i\fs22 Gedachtnis, \f7\i0\fs20 as used in Freud's  essay.)  Therefore, 'it would  be the special characteristic  of consciousness that,  unlike what happens in all\'b7 other psychical systems, the excitatory  proc\'ad ess does not leave behind a permanent change in its el ments, expires, as \fs22 it \fs20 were, in the phenomenon  of becoming conscious." The  basic formula of this hypothesis is that "becoming  conscious and leaving behind  a memory  trace  are  processes incompatible with each other within one and the same system." Rather, mem\'ad ory fragments are "often  most powerful and most enduring when the incident  which left them behind was one that  never entered consciousness., Put in Prouscian terms, this means that only what has not  been  experienced  explicitly  and  consciously,  what  has\
\
\fi140533\li2980\f4\i\fs16 t6o\
\
\li3320\fs18 On Some Motifr in Baudelaire\
\fi22\li2900\qc
\f7\i0\fs20 not happened to the subject as an experience, can become a com\'ad ponent  of  the  \f4\i\fs22 memoire involontaire. \f7\i0\fs20 According   to  Freud,  the attribution of "permanent  traces as the basis of memory" to proc\'ad esses of stimulation  is reserved for  "other systems," which  must be thought  of as different  from  consciousness. In  Freud's  view, consciousness as such  receives no memory  traces  whatever,  but has another  important  function:  protection against stimuli. "For a living  organism, protection   against stimuli  is an  almost more important  function  than  the reception  of stimuli; the protective shield is equipped  with  its own store of  energy  and  must above all strive  to preserve  the  special forms  of conversion  of  energy operating in it against the effects of the excessive energies at work\
\fi5\qj
in the external world, effects which  tend  toward  an equalization of  potential  and  hence  toward  destruction.'' The   threat  from these energies is one of shocks. The  more  readily  consciousness registers these shocks, the less likely are they to have \f5\fs16 a \f7\fs20 traumatic effect. Psychoanalytic theory  strives to  understand  the nature  of these traumatic  shocks "on  the  basis of  their  breaking  through the  protective  shield against stimuli." According   to  this theory, fright  has "significance" in the "absence of any preparedness for anxiety.,\
\fi300
Freud's  investigation  was occasioned  by a dream characteris\'ad tic  of  accident   neuroses  which  reproduce  the  catastrophe   in which  the  patient  was involved. Dreams of  this kind, according to Freud, "endeavor to master the stimulus retroactively,  by de\'ad veloping the anxiety  whose omission was the  cause of  the trau\'ad matic neurosis." Valery  seems to  have had something  similar in mind. The  coincidence  is worth  noting,  for  Valery  was among those interested in the special functioning  \f4\i of  \f7\i0 psychic mechanisms under present-day  conditions. (Moreover, Valery  was able to reconcile  this  interest  with   his  poetic   production,   which   re\'ad mained exclusively lyric. He thus emerges as the only author who goes back directly  to Baudelaire.) "The impressions and sense perceptions of man," Valery  writes, uactually  belong in the cate\'ad gory  of surprises; they  are evidence of  an insufficiency in man.\
\fi11\sl-240\slmult1
. . . Recollection  is ... an elemental phenomenon  which aims at giving us the time for  organizing the reception  of stimuli which\
\sl240\slmult1\li2600we initially lacked." The  acceptance  of shocks is facilitated  by training in coping with stimuli, and, if need be, dreams as well as recollection  may  be enlisted. \f5 As \f7 a rule,  however-so Freud  as\'ad sumes-this training devolves upon the wakeful consciousness, located in a part of the cortex which is ''so blown out by the ef\'ad fect  of  the stimulus,  that  it  offers the  most favorable situation for  the reception  of stimuli. That  the shock  is thus cushioned, parried by consciousness, would lend the incident  that occasions it  the  character  of  having  been  lived  in  the  strict  sense. \f5\fs22 If \f7 it \fs20 were incorporated  directly  in the registry  of conscious memory, it would sterilize this incident for  poetic experience.\
\fi311
The  question suggests itself how lyric  poetry  can have as its basis an experience for  which  the shock  experience. has become the norm. One would expect such poetry  to have a large measure of consciousness; it would suggest that a plan was at work  in its composition. This is indeed true of Baudelaire's poetry; it estab\'ad lishes a connection  between  him and Poe,  among  his predeces\'ad sors, and with  Va16ry, among  his successors. Proust's  and  Va\'ad lery's reflections concerning Baudelaire complement each other providentially. Proust wrote  an essay about Baudelaire the sig\'ad nificance of which is even exceeded by certain  reflections in his novels. In his "Situation  de Baudelaire" Valery  supplies the clas\'ad sical introduction  to  the  \f4\i Fleurs du   mal. \f7\i0 There   he says: "The problem for  Baudelaire was bound to be this: to become a great poe4 yet neither Lamartine nor Hugo nor Musset. I do not claim that  this ambition  was a conscious one in Baudelaire; but  it  was bound to be present in him, \fs22 it \fs20 was his reason of state." There is something odd about speaking of a reason of state in the case of a poet;  there  is something  remarkable  about  it:  the  emancipa\'ad tion from experiences. Baudelaire's poetic output  is assigned a mission. He  envisioned blank spaces which  he filled in with  his poems. His work  cannot merely be categorized  as historical, like\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1\li2620anyone  else's, but  it  intended  to be so and  understood  itself  as\
\li2600such.\
\
\
\
\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li3000\ql
\f4\i\fs16 16z\
\
\li3200\fs18 On Some Motifs in Baudelaire\
\
\f8\i0\fs20 IV\
\
\fi306\li2900\qj
\f7\fs22 The greater the share \f4\i of \f7\i0 the shock factor in particular im\'ad pressions, the more constantly consciousness has to be alert as a screen against stimuli; the more efficiently it does so, the less do these impressions enter  experience \f4\i\fs20 (Erfahrung), \f7\i0\fs22 tending to  re\'ad main in the sphere of a certain hour in one's life \f4\i\fs20 (Erlebnis). \f7\i0\fs22 Per\'ad haps the special achievement of shock defense may be seen in \fs20 its \fs22 function  of assigning to an incident a precise point in time in consciousness at the cost of the integrity  of its contents. This would be a peak achievement of the intellect; \fs20 it \fs22 would turn the incident into a moment that has been lived \f4\i\fs20 (Erlebnis). \f7\i0\fs22 Without reflection there would be nothing but the sudden start, usu Uy the sensation of fright  which, according to Freud, confirms the failure df the shock defense. Baudelaire has portrayed this condi\'ad tion in a harsh image. He speaks of a duel in which the artist, just before being beaten, screams in fright. This  duel is the creative\
\fi140533
\'b7process itself. Thus  Baudelaire placed the  shock experience at the very center of his artistic work. This self-portrait, which is corroborated by evidence from several contemporaries, is of great significance. Since he is himself exposed to fright, \fs20 it  \fs22 is not  un\'ad usual for Baudelaire to occasion fright. Valles tells us about his eccentric grimaces; on the basis of a portrait  by Nargeot, Pont\'ad martin  establishes Baudelaire's alarming  appearance;. Claudel stresses the cutting quality he could give to his speech; Gautier speaks of the italicizing Baudelaire indulged in when reciting po\'ad etry; Nadar describes his jerky gait.\
\fi294\sl-240\slmult1
Psychiatry knows traumatophile types. Baudelaire made it his business to parry the shocks, no matter where they might come\
\fi140533\li2920from, with his spiritual and his physical self. This shock defense\
\sl216\slmult1\li2900is depicted graphically in an attitude of combat. Baudelaire de\'ad scribes his friend Constantin Guys, whom  he visits when Paris is asleep: "... how he stands there, bent over his table, scrutiniz\'ad ing the sheet of  paper  just as intently  as he does the objects around him by day; how he \f4\i stabs away \f7\i0 with his pencil, his pen, his brush; how he spurts water from his glass to the ceiling and tries his pen on his shirt; how he pursues his work swiftly and\
\li2600intensely, as though he were afraid that his images might escape him; thus he is combative, even when alone, and parries his own blows." In the opening stanza of  his poem "Le Solei!, Baude\'ad laire has pictured  himself engaged in such a fantastic combat; this is probably the only place in \f4\i\fs20 Les Fleurs du mal \f7\i0\fs22 that shows the poet at work.\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li2960\ql
\fs20 Le long du vieux faubourg, ou pendent aux masures\
\sl-168\slmult1
Les persiennes, abri des secretes luxures,\
\sl-264\slmult1
Quand le soleil cruel frappe \fs30 a \fs20 traits redoubles\
\sl-192\slmult1
Sur la ville et les champs; sur les \fs16 toits \fs20 et les hies,\
\sl-216\slmult1
Je vais m'exercer seul a rna fantasque escrime,\
Flairant dans tous les coins les hasards de la rime,\
Trebuchant sur les mots comme sur les paves,\
Heurtant  parfois des vers depuis longtemps reves.\bullet \
\fi5\sl240\slmult1\li2600\qj
\fs22 Shock is among those experiences that have assumed decisive \f5 im\'ad \f7 portance for Baudelaire,s personality. Gide has dealt with the in\'ad terstices between image and idea, word and thing, which are the real site of Baudelaire's poetic excitation. Riviere has pointed to the subterranean shocks \f5 by \f7 which Baudelaire's poetry is shaken; it is as though they caused words to collapse. Riviere has indi\'ad cated such collapsing words.\
\
\fi140533\sl216\slmult1\li2940\ql
Et \fs20 qui sait si les Beurs nouvelles que je reve Trouveront dans ce sol lave comme une greve Le mystique aliment qui \f4\i ferait \f7\i0 leur vigueur.t\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li2600Or:\
\
\
\fi210800\sl-264\slmult1\li2480Cybele, qui les aime, \f4\i augmente ses verdures;,t.\
\fi140533\sl240\slmult1\li2780\f7\i0\fs18 \bullet  Along the old faubourg  where the masonry is tented  by\
\fi5\sl-168\slmult1\li2900ShutteJ;S, sheltering secret  pleasures, When  the cruel, sun's redoubled  beams\
\fi140533\sl-192\slmult1\li2920Are lashing \fs16 city  \fs18 and field, roofs and grain,\
\li2900I go, alone, to  practice my  curious fencing,\
\li2920In every  corner smelling out the dodges of rhyme,\
\li2900Stumbling over words as over cobblestones,\
Colliding now and then with long-dreamed-of  verses.\
\sl-240\slmult1\li2800\fs22 t \fs18 And who  knows whether  my dreams' new  flowers\
\sl-168\slmult1\li2900Will  find within  this soil, washed like a shore,\
\sl-192\slmult1
The  mystic nourishment  that  would give them  strength?\
\sl240\slmult1\li2720\qc
\f4\i\fs24 + \f7\i0\fs18 Cybele, who loves them, augments her verdure.\
\
\li3240\ql
\f4\i\fs20 On Some Motifs \f5\i0\fs14 jn \f4\i\fs20 Baudelaire\
\li2860\qj
\f7\i0\fs22 Another example is this famous first line:\
\
\li3240\ql
\fs20 La servante au grand  coeur dont vous etiez  \f4\i jalouse.\bullet \
\sl216\slmult1\li2860\qj
\f7\i0\fs22 To give these covert laws their due outside his verses as well was Baudelaire's intention in his \f4\i\fs24 Spleen de Paris, \f7\i0\fs22 his prose poems. In the dedication of his collection to the editor-in-chief of \f4\i La Presse, \f7\i0 Arsene Houssaye, Baudelaire wrote:  uwho among us has not dreamt, in his ambitious days, of the miracle of a poetic prose? It would have to be musical without rhythm  and rhyme, supple and resistant enough to adapt itself to the lyrical stirrings of the soul, the wave motions of dreaming, the shocks of consciousness. This ideal, which can turn into an \f4\i\fs24 idee \fs22 fixe, \f7\i0 will grip especially those who are at home in the giant cities and the web of their numberless interconnecting relationships."\
\fi300\sl-240\slmult1\li2880This passage suggests two insights. For  one thing, it tells us about the close connection in Baudelaire between the figure of shock and contact with the metropolitan masses. For another, it\
\fi140533
tells us what is really meant by these masses. They  do not stand for classes or any sort of collective; rather, they are nothing but\
the  amorphous crowd  of  passers-by, the  people in  the street.\fs12 1\
\fs22 This crowd, of whose existence Baudelaire is always aware, has\
\fi11\li2860not served as the model for any of his works, but it is imprinted on his creativity as a hidden figure, just as it constitutes the figure concealed in the fragment quoted before. We  may discern the image of the fencer in it; the blows he deals are designed to open a path through  the crowd  for  him. To  be sure, the  \f4\i faubourgs \f7\i0 through  which the poet of "Le Solei!" makes his way  are de\'ad serted. But the meaning of the hidden configuration  (which re\'ad veals the beauty of that stanza to its very depth)  probably is this: it is the phantom crowd of the words, the fragments, the begin\'ad nings of lines from which the poet, in the deserted streets, wrests the poetic booty.\
\
\fi140533\sl240\slmult1\li3060\ql
\fs18 \bullet  That  magnanimous servant of whom you were  jealous.\
\
\li2940\f5\fs20 v\
\
\fi306\li2640\qj
\f7 The  crowd-no subject was more entitled  to the attention  of nineteenth-century writers.  It  was getting  ready  to  take  shape as a public in broad strata who had acquired  facility  in reading. It became a customer; it wished to find itself portrayed  in the contemporary novel, as the patrons did in the paintings of the Middle Ages. The  most successful author  of the century  met this demand out of inner necessity. To  him, crowd  meant-almost in the  ancient  sense-the crowd  of  the  clients,  the  public. Victor Hugo  was the first to address the crowd  in his titles: \f4\i Les \fs24 Mise\'ad\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1\li2600\qc
\fs20 Tables, Les Travailleurs de la mer. \f7\i0 In France, Hugo  was the only\
\sl-216\slmult1\li2620writer  able  to  compete  with  the  serial  novel.  As is generally\
\sl240\slmult1\li2600known,  Eugene Sue was the  master of  this genre,  which  began to be the source of revelation for the man in the street. In \f5\fs14 I \f7\fs20 850 an  overwhelming  majority  elected  him  to  Parliament  as repre\'ad sentative  of the  city  of Paris. It  is no  accident  that  the  young Marx chose Sue's \f4\i Les \fs24 Mysteres de Paris \f7\i0\fs20 for  an attack.  He  early recognized  it  as his task  to  forge  the  amorphous  mass, which was then  being wooed  by  an  aesthetic  socialism, into  the  iron of the proletariat. Engels' description of these masses in his early writings  may be regarded  as a prelude,  however  modest, to  one of  Marx's  themes. In  his book  \f4\i The Condition of the Working Class in England, \f7\i0 Engels writes: "A city  like London, where one can roam about for  hours without  reaching  the beginning of an end,  without  seeing  the  slightest  indication  that  open  country is nearby,  is really  something  very  special.  This  colossal cen\'ad tralization, this agglomeration  of three  and a half million people on a single spot has multiplied the strength  of these three and  a half million inhabitants a hundredfold.... But the price that  has been  paid  is  not  discovered  until  later.  Only   when  one  has tramped  the pavements of the main streets for  a few  days does one  notice  that  these Londoners  have  had  to  sa-crifice what  is best in human nature in order  to create all the wonders of civil\'ad ization with which  their city  teems, that a hundred  creative fac\'ad ulties that lay dormant  in them remained inactive and were sup\'ad pressed. . . . There  is something distasteful about  the very  bustle\
\
\li3040\ql
\f4\i\fs16 166\
\fi11\li2840\qj
\f7\i0\fs20 of the streets, something that is abhorrent  to human nature itself. Hundreds  of thousands of  people of all classes and ranks of so\'ad ciety  jostle past one another; are they  not all human beings with the  same characteristics  and  potentialities,  equally  interested  in the  pursuit  of  happiness? . . . And  yet  they  rush  past one  an\'ad other  as \f5 if \f7 they  had nothing  in common  or\'b7 were in no way as\'ad sociated  with  one another.  Their  only  agreement  is a tacit  one: that everyone should keep to the right of the pavement, so as not to impede the stream of people moving in the opposite direction. No one even bothers to spare a glance for the others. The  greater the number of people that are packed into a tiny space, the more repulsive and offensive becomes the brutal  indifference1 the  un\'ad feeling concentration \f4\i\fs24 of  \f7\i0\fs20 each person on his private  affairs."\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1\li3140\ql
This  description  differs markedly  from  those  to be found  in\
\fi5\sl240\slmult1\li2840\qj
minor  French   masters, such  as  Gozlan,  Delvau,  or  Lurine.  It lacks the skill and ease with which the  \f4\i\fs24 flaneur \f7\i0\fs20 moves among the crowd  and which  the  journalist eagerly learns from  him. Engels is dismayed  by  the crowd;  he responds  with  \f5 a.  \f7 moral  reaction,\
and an aesthetic one as well; the speed with  which  people rush past  one  another  unsettles  him. The   charm  of  his description lies in  the  intersecting  of  unshakable  critical  integrity with  an old-fashioned  attitude.  The  writer  came from  a  Germany   that was still provincial; he may never have faced  the  temptation  to lose himself in a stream of people. When  Hegel went to Paris for the  first time  not  long  before  his death,  he wrote  to  his wife: "When I walk through  the streets, people look  just as they  do in Berlin; they wear the same clothes and the faces are about  the same-the same aspect, but  in a large crowd."  To  move in  this crowd  was natural for  a Parisian. No  matter  how  great  the dis\'ad tance  which  an  individual  cared  to  keep  from  it,  he  still  was colored by it and, unlike Engels, was not able to view it from without.  As regards Baudelaire, the masses were anything  but ex\'ad ternal  to him; indeed, it is easy to trace  in his works  his defen\'ad sive reaction  to their  attraction  and allure.\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1\li3140\ql
The  masses had become so much a part  of Baudelaire that  it\
\li2840\qj
is rare to find a description  of them in his works. His most im\'ad\
\sl240\slmult1\li2860portant subjects are hardly ever encountered  in descriptive form.\
\
\fi22\li2640\qc
As Dujardin  so aptly  put  it, he was "more  concerned  with  im\'ad planting the image in the memory  than  with  adorning  and elab\'ad orating it." It is futile to search in \f4\i\fs22 Les Fleurs du mal \f7\i0\fs20 or in \f4\i\fs22 Spleen de \fs24 Paris \f7\i0\fs20 for any counterpart to the portrayals  of the city  which Victor  Hugo  did with such mastery. Baudelaire describes neither the  Parisians nor  their  city.  Forgoing  such  descriptions  enables him to invoke the ones in the fortn  of  the  other.  His crowd  is always the crowd  of a big \fs22 city, \fs20 his Paris is invariably overpopu\'ad lated. It is this that makes him so superior  to Barbier, whose de\'ad scriptive  method caused a rift  between  the masses and the city.\fs12 2\
\fi11\li2660\qj
\fs20 In \f4\i\fs22 Tableaux parisiens \f7\i0\fs20 the secret  presence of a crowd  \f5 is \f7 demon\'ad strable  almost everywhere.  When  Baudelaire takes the  dawn  as his theme, the deserted streets emanate something of that "silence of a throng"  which  Hugo  senses in  nocturnal  Paris. As Baude\'ad laire looks at the  plates in the anatomical  works  for  sale on the dusty  banks of  the  Seine, the  mass of  the  departed  takes  the place of the singular skeletons on  these pages. In  the  figures of the  \f4\i\fs22 danse macabre,  \f7\i0\fs20 he sees a compact  mass on  the  move. The heroism of the wizened old women whom  the cycle "Les petites vieilles" follows on their  rounds, consists in their  standing apart\
\fi5
from the crowd,  unable to keep its pace, no longer participating with  their  thoughts  in  the  present. The  mass was the  agitated veil; through  it Baudelaire saw Paris. The  presence of  the mass determines  one  of  the  most  famous  components  of  \f4\i\fs22 Les Fleurs du mal.\
\fi140533\sl-216\slmult1\li2940\ql
\f7\i0\fs20 In the sonnet "A  nne passante'' the crowd  is nowhere  named\
\sl240\slmult1\li2660\qj
in either  word  or  phrase. And  yet  the  whole  happening  hinges on it, just as the progress of a sailboat depends on the wind.\
\
\sl-240\slmult1\li3000\ql
La rue assourdissante autour  de moi hurlait.\
\sl-192\slmult1
Longue, mince, en grand deuil, douleur  majestueuse,\
\sl-216\slmult1
Une femme passa, d'une main fastueuse\
Soulevant, balan ant\
\
\sl-240\slmult1\li2980Agile et noble, avec sa jambe de statue.\
\sl-192\slmult1\li3000Moi, je buvais, crispe comme un extravagant,\
Dans son oeil, ciel livide ou germe l'ouragan,\
\sl-216\slmult1
La douceur qui fascine et le plaisir qui tue.\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li3040\f4\i\fs16 168\
\
\fi11\sl216\slmult1\li3180\f7\i0\fs20 Un eclair \bullet  \bullet  . puis Ia nuit!-Fugitive  beaute Dont le regard m'a fait soudainement renaitre, Ne te verrai-je plus que dans l'eternire?\
\
\fi140533\sl-216\slmult1
Ailleurs, bien loin d'ici! Trop  tard! \f4\i ]amais \f7\i0 pent-etre! Car \f5 j\f7 'ignore ou \f5\fs16 tu \f7\fs20 fuis, \fs16 tu \fs20 ne sais ou je vais,\
\fs22 0 \fs20 toi que  j'eusse aimee, \f5\fs26 o \f7\fs20 toi \fs22 qui \fs20 le \fs22 savais! \bullet \
\fi328\sl240\slmult1\li2760\qr
In a widow's veil, mysteriously and mutely home  along \f5 by \f7 the crowd, an unknown woman comes into  the  poet's field of vision. What  this som1et communicates is simply this: Far from experiencing the crowd as an opposed, antagonistic element, this very crowd brings to the city dweller the figure that fascinates. The  delight of the urban poet is love-not at first sight, but at last sight. It is a farewell forever which coincides in the poem with the moment of enchantment. Thus  the sonnet supplies the figure of shock, indeed of  catastrophe. But  the  nature  of  the poet's emotions has been affected as well. What  makes his body contract  in a \f4\i tremor-crispe  \fs20 comme \fs22 un \fs20 extravagant, \f7\i0\fs22 Baudelaire says-is  not the rapture  of a man whose every fiber is suffused with  \f4\i eros; \f7\i0 it is, rather, like the  kind of sexual shock  that  can beset a lonely man. The fact that "these verses could only have been written in a big city,'' as Thibaudet put it, is not very mean\'ad ingful. They  reveal the stigmata which life in a metropolis in\'ad flicts upon love. Proust read the sonnet in this light, and that is why  he gave his later echo of the woman in mourning, which\
\
\fi140533\sl-192\slmult1\li3140\ql
\fs18 \bullet  The  deafening street was screaming all around  me. Tall, slender, \fs20 in \fs18 deep mourning-majestic grief\'ad\
\li3160A woman made her way, with  fastidious hand\
\li3140Raising and swaying festoon and  hem;\
\
\sl-216\slmult1
Agile and  noble, with  her statue's limbs.\
\sl-192\slmult1
And  there  was I, who  drank, contorted  like a madman,\
\fi11
Within her  eyes-that livid sky where  hurricane  is born\'ad Gendeness  that  fascinates, pleasure that  \fs20 kills.\
\
\fi140533\sl216\slmult1\li3160\fs18 A  lightning\'b7flash \bullet .. then night!-0 fleeting beauty Whose  glance all of a sudden gave me new birth, Shall I see you  again only  in eternity?\
\
\sl-216\slmult1\li3140Far, far from  here! Too  late!  or maybe, \f4\i never?\
\sl-168\slmult1
\f7\i0 For I know not where  you flee, you know  not where  I go,\
\sl-192\slmult1\li31600 you I would  have loved  (o you who knew it too!)\
\fi17\sl240\slmult1\li2660\qj
\fs20 appeared to him one day in the .form of Albertine,  the evocative caption  "La  Parisienne.,. ''When Albertine  came into  my  room again, she wore a black satin dress. It made her pale, and she re\'ad sembled the type of the fiery and yet pale Parisian woman, the woman who is not used to fresh air and has been affected by liv\'ad ing  among  masses and  possibly  in  an  atmosphere  of  vice,  the kind that can be recognized  by a certain glance which seems un\'ad steady if there is no rouge on her cheeks." This  is the look-even as late  as Proust-of  the  object  of  a  love  whlch  only  a  city dweller  experiences, which  Baudelaire captured  for  poetry,  and of  which  one  might  not  infrequently   say  that  it  was spared, rather  than denied, fulfillment.\fs12 3\
\
\
\fi140533\li2940\ql
\f8\fs20 VI\
\
\fi0\li2620\qj
\f7 A story  by Poe which Baudelaire translated  may be regarded as the classic example among the older  versions of  the  motif of the  crowd.  It  is  marked  by  certain  peculiarities  which,  upon closer inspection,  reveal aspects of social forces  of such  power and hidden depth  that  we  may count  them  among  those which alone are capable of exerting both a subtle and a profound  effect upon artistic production.  The  story  is entitled  "The  Man of the Crowd."  Set in London,  its narrator  is a man who, after  a long illness, ventures  out  again for  the first time into  the  hustle  and bustle of the city. In the late afternoon  hours of an autumn  day he  installs himself  behind  a  window  in  a  big  London  coffee\'ad house. He looks over the other guests, pores over advertisements in the paper, but his main focus of interest is the throng  of peo\'ad ple surging  past his window  in the street. "The  latter  is one of the principal thoroughfares  of the city, and had been very  much crowded  during the whole day. But, as the darkness came on, the throng  momently  increased;  and  by  the  time  the  lamps  were well lighted, two  dense and continuous  tides of population  were rushing past the door. At  this particular  period  of the evening I had never before  been in a similar situation, and  the  tumultuous sea of human heads fil1ed me, .therefore, with a delicious novelty of emotion.  I  gave up, at  length,  all care  of  things  within  the\
\fi140533\li2820\fs22 hotel, and became absorbed in contemplation of the scene with\'ad out." Important  as it is, let us disregard the narrative to which this \f5 is \f7 the prelude and examine the setting.\
\fi306
The  appearance of the London crowd  as Poe describes it is as gloomy and fitful as the light of the gas lamps overhead. This applies not only to the riffraff that is ''brought  forth  from  its den, as night falls. The  employees of  higher rank, "the  upper clerks of staunch firms," Poe describes as follows: "They  had all slightly bald heads, from which the right ears, long used to pen\'ad holding, had an odd habit of standing off on end. I observed that they always removed or settled their hats with both hands, and wore watches, with short gold chains of a substantial and ancient pattern." Even more striking is his description of the crowd's movements. "By far the greater number of those who went by had a satisfied business-like demeanour, and seemed to be think\'ad\
\fi5\li2800\ql
:ing only  of making their way through  the  press.. Their  brows were knit, and their eyes rolled quickly; when pushed against by felJow-wayfarers they  evinced no symptom of impatience, but adjusted their  clothes and hurried  on. Others, still a numerous class, were  restless in their  movements, had flushed faces, and talked and gesticulated to themselves, as \f5 if \f7 feeling in solitude on account  of  the very  denseness of  the company around. When impeded in their progress, these -people suddenly ceased mutter\'ad ing, but redoubled their gesticulations\f5\fs10 1  \f7\fs22 and awaited, with an ab\'ad sent and overdone smile upon the lips, the course of the persons impeding them. \f5 If \f7 jostled, they bowed profusely to the  jostlers, and appeared overwhelmed with confusion." \fs12 4   \fs22 One  might think he was speaking of half-drunken \'b7wretches. Actually, they were "noblemen, merchants, attorneys, tradesmen, stock-jobbers." \f5\fs14 r;\
\fi0\sl216\slmult1\qj
\f7\fs22 Poe's  manner  of  presentation cannot  be  called  realism. \f5\fs20 It \f7\fs22 shows a purposely distorting imagination at work,  one that re\'ad moves the  text  far  from  what is commonly advocated as the model of social realism. Barbier; perhaps one of the best examples of this type of realism that come to mind, describes things in a less eccentric way. Moreover, he chose a more transparent sub\'ad ject: the oppressed masses. Poe is not concerned with these; he deals with  "people,,  pure and simple. For  him, as for  Engels,\
\
\fi140533\sl240\slmult1\li3200\ql
\f4\i\fs12 171\
\
\li3040\fs20 lllumi'lllltions\
\sl216\slmult1\li2680\qj
\f7\i0\fs22 there was something menacing in the spectacle they  presented. It is precisely this image of.big-city crowds that became decisive for Baudelaire. \fs24 If \fs22 he succumbed to the force  by which he was drawn to them and, as a \f4\i\fs24 fidneur, \f7\i0\fs22 was made one of them, he was nevertheless unable to rid himself of a sense of their essentially inhuman make-up. He becomes their accomplice even as he dis-\'ad sociates himself from  them. He  becomes deeply involved with them, only to relegate them to oblivion with a single glance of contempt. There is something compelling abot:tt this ambivalence where he cautiously admits to it. Perhaps the charm of his "Crepuscule du soir," so difficult to account  for, is bound  up with this.\
\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li2960\ql
\fs16 VII\
\
\fi300\sl216\slmult1\li2680\qj
\fs22 Baudelaire saw fit to equate the man of  the  crowd, whom Poe's narrator follows throughout the length and breadth of noc\'ad turnal London, with the  \f4\i\fs24 flaneur. \f7\i0\fs22 It is hard to accept this view. The  man of  the crowd  is no  \f4\i\fs24 fldneur. \f7\i0\fs22 In  him, composure has given way to manic behavior. Hence he exemplifies, rather, 'Yhat had to become of the \f4\i\fs24 flaneur \f7\i0\fs22 once he was deprived of the milieu to which  he belonged. \fs24 If \fs22 London ever provided it for  him, it was certainly not the setting described by Poe. In comparison, Baudelaire's Paris preserved some features that dated back to the happy old days. Ferries were still crossing the Seine at points that would later be spanned by the arch of a bridge. In the year of Baudelaire's death it was still possible for some entrepreneur  to cater to the comfort of the well\'b7to-do with a fleet of five hundred sedan chairs circulating about the city. Arcades where the \f4\i\fs24 fla:neur \f7\i0\fs22 would not be exposed to the sight of carriages that did not rec\'ad\
\fi11
ognize pedestrians as rivals were enjoying  undiminished popu\'ad larity.6 There  was the  pedestrian who  would  let  himself be jostled by  the crowd, but  there was also the  \f4\i\fs24 fianeur  \f7\i0\fs22 who  de\'ad manded elbow room and was unwilling to  forgo  the life of a gentleman of leisure. Let the many attend to their daily affairs;\
\fi140533\sl-264\slmult1\li2700the man of leisure can indulge in the perambulations of the \f4\i\fs28 fld\'ad\
\fs24 neur \f7\i0\fs22 only if as such he \f5\fs20 is \f7\fs22 already out of place. He  is as much\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li3080\ql
\f9\i\fs16 11Z\
\
\li3180\f4\fs20 On Some Motifs in BaudeltJ.ire\
\li2820\qj
\f7\i0 out of place in an atmosphere of complete leisure as in the fever\'ad ish turmoil  of  the  city.  London  has its  man of  the  crowd. His counterpartt as it  were,  is the  boy  Nante  [Ferdinand], of  the street  corner, a popular figure in Berlin before the  March  Revo\'ad lution  of 1848; the Parisian  \f4\i\fs22 fianeur \f7\i0\fs20 might  be said to  stand  mid\'ad\
\sl-192\slmult1
way  between  them.\fs12 7\
\fi306\sl240\slmult1
\fs20 How  the man of leisure looks upon  the crowd  is revealed in a short  piece by E. T. \fs22 A. \fs20 Hoffmann,  the last that  he wrote,  en\'ad titled  "The Cousin's Corner  Window." It  antedates  Poe's story by :fifteen years and  probably  is one of  the  earliest attempts  to capture  the street scene of a large city. The  differences between the  two  pieces are 'Yorth  noting. Poe's  narrator  observes  from behind  the window  of a public coffeehouse, whereas  the cousin is installed at  home. Poe's  observer succumbs  to  the  fascination of the scene, which finally lures him outside into the whirl of the crowd.  Hoffmann's  cousin, looking out from  \fs22 his \fs20 corner  window, is immobilized as a paralytic; he would not  be able to follow the crowd  even if he were in the midst of it. His attitude  toward  the crowd  is, rather,  one of superiority, inspired  as it  is \f5\fs22 by \f7\fs20 his ob\'ad servation  post  at  the  window  of  an  apartment   building.  From this vantage point he scrutinizes the throng;  it is market  day, and they  all feel  in their  element. His  opera  glasses enable  him  to pick out individual genre scenes. The  employment  of this instru\'ad ment  is thoroughly in  keeping with  the  inner  disposition  of its user. He  would  like. as he admits, to initiate  \fs22 his \fs20 visitor  into the "principles  of the  art  of seeing." \fs14 8  \fs20 This  consists of  an  ability  to enjoy  \f4\i\fs22 tableaux vivants-a \f7\i0\fs20 favorite  pursuit  of the Biedermeier  pe\'ad\
\fi140533\sl-216\slmult1
riod. Edifying  sayings provide the interpretation.\fs12 9  \fs20 One  can look\
\fi5\sl240\slmult1
upon  the  narrative  as an  attempt   which  was  then  due  to  be made. But it is obvious that  the  conditions  under  which  it  was made in Berlin  prevented  it from  being  a com\'b7plete success. If Hoffmann  had ever set foot \f5 in \f7 Paris or London, or \fs22 if \fs20 he had been intent  upon  depicting  the  masses as such,  he  would  not  ha:ve focused  on  a  market  place; he  would  not  have  portrayed the scene  as being  dominated  by  women;  he  would  perhaps  have seized on the motifs that Poe derives from  the swarming  crowds under  the  gas lamps. Actually,  there  would  have  been  no need\
\
\fi140533\li3200\ql
\f4\i\fs16 11J\
\
\li2660\qj
\f7\i0\fs22 for these motifs in order to bring out the uncanny elements that other students of the physiognomy of the big city have felt. A thoughtful observation by Heine is relevant here: "Heine's eye\'ad sight/'  wrote a correspondent in a letter to Varnhagen in \fs20 1838, \fs22 "caused him acute trouble in the spring. On  the last such occa\'ad sion I was walking down one of the boulevards with him. The magnificence, the life of  this in  its  way  unique  thoroughfare roused  me to  boundless admiration, something  that  prompted Heine this time to make a significant point in stressing the horror with which this center of the world was tinged."\
\
\
\li2920\qc
\fs16 VI I I\
\
\fi294\li2660\qj
\fs22 Fear, revulsion, and horror were the emotions which the big.. city crowd aroused in those who first observed it. For Poe it has something  barbaric; discipline just barely  manages to  tame it. Later, James Ensor  tirelessly confronted  its discipline with  its wildness; he liked to put military groups in his carnival mobs, and both got along splendidly-as  the  prototype  of  totalitarian states, in which the police make common cause with the looters. Valery, who had a .fine eye for the cluster of symptoms called "civilization," has characterized one of the pertinent facts. "The inhabitant of the great urban  centers," he writes, "reverts to a state of savagery-that  is, of isolation. The  feeling of being de\'ad pendent on others, which used to be kept alive by need, is grad\'ad ually blunted in the smooth functioning of the social mechanism. Any improvement of this mechanism eliminates certain modes of behavior and emotions/' Comfort isolates; on the other hand, \fs20 it \fs22 brings those enjoying it closer to mechanization. The  invention of  the  match  around  the  middle  of  the  nineteenth  century brought forth a number of innovations which have one thing in common: one abrupt movement of the hand triggers a process of many steps. This development is taking place in many areas. One case in point is the telephone, where the  lifting of  a re\'ad ceiver has taken the place of the steady movement that used to be required to crank the older models. Of  the countless move\'ad ments of switching, inserting, pressing, and the like, the "snap-\
\
\fi140533\li3040\qc
\f9\i\fs18 114\
\li2820\f7\i0\fs20 pingn of the photographer  has had the greatest  consequences. A touch of the finger now sufficed to fix an event for an unlimited period  of  time.  The   camera  gave  the  moment  a  posthumous shock, as it were. Haptic  experiences of this kind were  joined by optic  ones, such  as are supplied  by  the  advertising  pages of  a newspaper or the traffic of a big city. Moving through  this traffic involves the individual in a series of shocks and collisions. At dan\'ad gerous intersections, nervous impulses flow through  him in rapid succession, like the energy  from  a battery.  Baudelaire speaks of a man who  plunges into the crowd  as into a reservoir of electric energy. Circumscribing  the experience of the shock, he calls this man  "a   \f4\i\fs22 kaleidoscope  \f7\i0\fs20 equipped   with   consciousness."  Whereas\
\sl-216\slmult1\li2840\qj
Poe's passers-by cast glances in all directions which still appeared\
\fi5\sl240\slmult1
to  be aimless, today's  pedestrians are  obliged  to  do so in order to keep abreast of traffic signals. Thus  technology  has subjected the human sensorium to a complex kind of training. There came a day when  a new and urgent  need for  stimuli was met  by  the film. In  a  film,  perception  in  the  form  of  shocks  was  estab\'ad lished as a formal  principle. That  which  determines  the  rhythm of production  on a conveyor  belt is the basis of  the rhythm  of reception  in the film.\
\fi0\li2820Marx had good reason to stress the great fluidity  of the con\'ad nection  between segments in manual labor. This  connection  ap\'ad pears to the factory  worker on an assembly line in an independent, objectified  form.  Independently   of  the  worker's   volition,  the article  being worked  on  comes within  his range  of  action  and moves away from  him  just as arbitrarily.  \f5 "It \f7 is a common  char\'ad acteristic  of  all capitalist  production  ... ,"  wrote  Marx, "that the worker  does not make use of the working  conditions. The working conditions make use of the worker;  but it takes machin\'ad ery to give this reversal a technically concrete form." In working with  machines, workers  learn  to  co-ordinate  "their  own  move\'ad ments with the uniformly  constant movements of an automaton." These  words  shed a  peculiar light  on  the  absurd  kind  of  uni\'ad formity  with  which Poe wants to saddle the crowd-uniformities of attire and behavior, but also a uniformity  of facial expression. Those  smiles provide food  for  thought.  They   are probably  the\
\li2620\qc
familiar kind, as expressed in the phrase "keep  smiling"; in that context they function  as a mimetic shock absorber. "All machine work/' it is said in the above context, "requires  early drilling of the  worker."  This  drill  must  be  differentiated  from   practice. Practice,  which  was the sole determinant  in craftsmanship,  still had a function  in manufacturing. With  it as the basis, "each par\'ad ticular  area  of  production  finds its  appropriate   technical  form in \f4\i\fs24 experience \f7\i0\fs20 and \f4\i slowly \f7\i0 perfects it." To  be sure, it quickly crys\'ad\
\fi140533\sl-216\slmult1\li2640\qj
tallizes it, "as soon as a certain  degree  of maturity  has been at\'ad\
\fi5\sl240\slmult1
tained."  On  the other  hand,  this same  manufacturing  produces "in  every  handicraft it seizes a class of so-called unskilled labor\'ad ers which  the handicraft system strictly  excluded. In developing the greatly  simplified specialty  to the  point of  virtuosity  at the cost of the work capacity as a whole, it starts turning  the lack of any  development  into  a specialty. In  addition  to  ranks  we  get the simple division of workers into the skilled and the unskilled." The  unskilled worker  is the  one most  deeply  degraded  by  the drill of the machines. His work  has been sealed off from  experi\'ad ence; practice counts for nothing there.\fs14 1\fs20 o What  the Fun Fair achieves with  its Dodgem  cars and  other  similar amusements is nothing but a taste of the drill to which the unskilled laborer is subjected  in the factory-a sample which  at  times was for  him the entire  menu; for  the art  of  being off center,  in which  the little man could acquire training in places like the Fun Fair, flour\'ad ished concomitantly  with unemployment. Poe's text makes us understand  the true  connection  between wildness and discipline. His pedestrians act as if they  had adapted themselves to .the ma\'ad chines and  could  express themselves only  automatically.  Their behavior  is a reaction  to  shocks. "If  jostled, they  bowed  pro\'ad fusely to the  jostlers.,\
\
\
\fi140533\li2920\ql
\f8\fs18 IX\
\
\fi300\li2640\qj
\f7\fs20 The  shock experience whlch the passer-by has in the crowd corresponds  to what  the  worker  "experiences,  at  his machine. This  does not entitle  us to  the assumption that  Poe  knew  any\'ad thing  about  industrial  work  processes. Baudelaire,  at  any  rate,\
\fi140533\li2760\qc
did not have the faintest notion of them. He  wast however,  cap\'ad tivated  by  a  process  whereby  the  reflecting  mechanism  which the  machine sets off in the  workman  can  be studied  closely, as in a mirror, in the idler. \f5 If \f7 we say that  this process is the  game of chance,  the statement  may appear  to  be  paradoxical. Where would  one  find  a more  evident  contrast  than  the  one  between work  and gambling?  Alain puts it convincingly  when he writes: "It  is inherent  in  the concept  of gambling ..  . . that  no  game is dependent  on  the  preceding  one. Gambling  cares about  no  as\'ad sured  position. . . . Winnings  secured  earlier are not  taken into account,  and in  this it differs from  work.  Gambling  gives short shrift to the weighty  past on which work  bases itself." The  work which  Alain  has  in  mind  here  is  the  highly  specialized  kind (which,  like intellectual  effort,  probably  retains certain  features of handicraft); it is not that of most factory  workers, least of all the work of the unskilled. The latter, to be sure, lacks any touch of adventure,  of the  mirage  that  lures the  gambler. But  it  cer\'ad tainly  does not  lack the  futility,  the  emptiness, the  inability  to complete something  which  is inherent  in the activity  of a wage slave in a factory. Gambling  even contains  the  workmants  ges\'ad ture  that is produced  by  the automatic  operation,  for  there  can be no game without  the quick movement  of the hand by which the stake is put  down  or  a card  is picked  up. The   jolt in  the movement  of a machine is like the so-called \f4\i\fs22 coup \f7\i0\fs20 in a game  of\
\sl-216\slmult1\li2800\qj
chance. The  manipulation  of the worker  at the machine has no\
\fi11\sl240\slmult1
connection  with the preceding operation for  the very reason that it is its exact repetition.  Since each operation  at  the  machine  is just as screened off from  the preceding  operation  as a \f4\i\fs22 coup \f7\i0\fs20 in a game of chance is from the one that preceded it, the drudgery of the laborer is, in its own  way, a counterpart to the drudgery of the gambler. The  work  of  both is equally  devoid of substance.\
\fi294
There  is a lithograph  by Senefelder which  represents a gam\'ad bling club. Not  one of those depicted is pursuing the game in the customary  fashion. Each  man is dominated  by  an emotion:  one shows unrestrained  joy; another,  distrust  of  his partner;  a third, dull  despair;  a  fourth   evinces  belligerence;  another  is  getting ready  to  depart  from  the  world.  All  these  modes  of  conduct\
\
\fi140533\li3200\ql
\f4\i\fs16 177\
\
\fi22\li2660\qj
\f7\i0\fs20 share a concealed  characteristic:  the  figures presented  show  us how the mechanism to which the participants in a game of chance entrust  themselves seizes them  body  and  soul, so  that  even  in their  private sphere, and  no matter  how  agitated  they  may  be, they are capable only of a reflex action. They  behave like the pe\'ad destrians in Poe's story. They  live their  lives as automatons  and resemble Bergson's fictitious characters who have completely liquidated their memories.\
\fi0\li2640\ql
Baudelaire does not  appear  to  have been a devotee  of gam\'ad bling, although  he  had  words  of  friendly  understanding,  even homage, for  those addicted  to it. The  motif which he treated  in his night  piece "Le  Jeu"  was part of his view of modern  times, and he considered it  as part  of  his mission to  write  this  poem. The  image of  the gambler  became in Baudelaire the  character\'ad istically modern complement to the archaic image of the fencer; both are  heroic figures to  him. Ludwig  Borne looked  at  things through  Baudelaire's eyes when he wrote:  \f5 "If \f7 aU the energy  and passion . . . that  are expended every  year at Europe's  gam.bling tables . . . were  saved, they  would  suffice to fashion a Roman people and a Roman  history  from  them. But  that is  just it. Be\'ad cause every man is born a Roman, bourgeois society seeks to de\'ad Romanize him, and that is why  there  are games of  chance  and parlor games, novels, lta]ian operas, and fashionable newspapers." Gambling  became a stock  diversion of  the  bourgeoisie  only  in the  nineteenth  century;  in  the eighteenth,  only  the  aristocracy gambled.  Games  of  chance  were  disseminated  by  the  Napo Ieonie armies, and they  now  became part  of "fashionable  ]iving and  the  thousands of  unsettled lives that  are  lived in  the  base\'ad ments of a large city,"  part of the spectacle in which  Baudelaire claimed he saw the heroic-"as it is characteristic  of our epoch."\
\fi283\sl-240\slmult1\li2660\f5 If \f7 one wants to examine gambling from  the  psychological as well as the technical point of view, Baudelaire's conception  of it\
\fi140533\qj
appears even more significant. It is obvious that  the  gambler  is out to win. Yet one will not want  to call his desire to  win and make money a wish in the strict  sense of the word. He  may be\
\li2640inwardly  motivated by greed or by some sinister determination.\
At any rate, his frame of mind is such that he cannot make much\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li3200\ql
\f4\i On Some Motifs \f7\i0\fs16 in  \f4\i\fs20 B11.udelaire\
\fi5\li2820\qj
\f7\i0\fs22 use of experience.\f5\fs12 11 \f7\fs22 A wish, however, is a kind of experience. "What  one wishes for in one's youth, one has in abundance in old age," said Goethe. The earlier in life one makes a wish, the greater one's chances that it \fs20 will \fs22 be fulfilled. The further a wish reaches out in time, the greater the hopes for its fulfillment. But it is experience that accompanies one to the far reaches of time, that fills and divides time. Thus a wish fulfilled is the crowning of experience. In folk symbolism, distance in space can take the place of distance in time; that is why  the shooting star, which plunges into the infinite distance of space, has become the sym\'ad bol of a fulfilled wish. The  ivory ball which rolls into the \f4\i\fs20 next \f7\i0\fs22 compartment, the \f4\i\fs20 next \f7\i0\fs22 card which lies on top are the very antith\'ad esis of a falling star. The period of time encompassed by the in\'ad stant in which the light of a shooting star flashes for a man is of the kind that Joubert has described with his customary assurance. "Time," he says, "is found even in eternity; but it is not earthly, worldly time. . . . That  time does not  destroy; it merely com\'ad pletes." \fs20 It \fs22 is the antithesis of time in hell, the province of those who are not allowed to complete anything they have started. The disrepute of games of chance is actually based on the fact  that the player himself has a hand in it. \f5\fs20 (An \f7\fs22 incorrigible patron of\
a lottery will not be proscribed in the same way as the gambler in a stricter sense.)\
\fi300
This starting all over again is the regulative idea of the game, \fs20 as \fs22 it \fs20 is \fs22 of work  for  wages. Thus \fs20 it  \fs22 is highly meaningful if in Baudelaire the second-hand-"la  Seconde"-appears  as partner of the gambler:\
\
\fi140533\sl-216\slmult1\li3180\ql
\f4\i\fs20 Souviens-toi \f7\i0 que le Temps est \fs22 un \fs20 joueur avide\
\sl-264\slmult1
Qui \fs22 gagne sans \fs20 tricher,  \fs32 a \fs22 tout \fs20 coup! \fs22 c'est la loi! \bullet \
\
\fi5\sl216\slmult1\li2820\qj
In another place, Satan himself takes the place of this second. The taciturn corner  of .the cave to which the poem "Le  Jeu"  rele\'ad gates those who are addicted to gambling undoubtedly is part of his realm.\
\
\fi140533\sl-216\slmult1\li3020\ql
\fs18 \bullet  Keep in mind that Time's  a rabid gambler\
\sl-192\slmult1\li3140Who  wins always without  cheating-it's the law!\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li3220\f4\i\fs16 179\
\sl-216\slmult1\li3000\f7\i0\fs20 Voila lenoir tableau qu'en un reve nocturne\
\sl-240\slmult1
\fs26 J\fs20 e.vis se derouler sous mon oeil clairvoyant,\
\sl-192\slmult1
Moi-meme, dans un coin de l'antre  taciturne,\
\sl-216\slmult1
Je me vis'accoude, froid, muet, enviant,\
Enviant  de ces gens la passion tenace.\bullet \
\sl240\slmult1\li2640\qj
The  poet does not participate in the game. He stands in his cor\'ad ner,  no  happier  than  those who  are  playing.  He  too  has been cheated  out  of his experience-a modern  man. The  only  differ\'ad ence  is that  he  rejects  the  narcotics  with  which  the  gamblers seek to  submerge  the  consciousness that  has delivered  them  to the march  of the second-hand.\fs14 12\
\
\sl-192\slmult1\li3000\ql
\fs20 Et  mon coeur s'effraya d'emrier maint pauvre homme\
\sl-264\slmult1
Courant avec ferveur \fs30 a \fs20 l'abime beant,\
\sl-168\slmult1
Et qui, soul de son sang, prefererait en somme\
\sl-264\slmult1
La douleur \fs28 a \fs20 la mort et l'enfer au neant! \f5\fs22 t\
\sl240\slmult1\li2640\qj
\f7\fs20 In this last stanza Baudelaire presents impatience as the substratum of the passion for gambling. He found  it in himself in its purest form. His violent temper  had the expressiveness of Giotto's \f4\i lra\'ad cundia \f7\i0 at Padua.\
\
\
\li2920\ql
\fs16 X\
\
\fi300\li2640\qj
\fs20 It  is-if   one follows Bergson-the actualization  of  the  \f4\i duree \f7\i0 which rids man's soul of obsession with  time. Proust shared  this belief, and from  it  he developed the lifelong exercises in  which he strove to bring to light past things saturated  with all the reminiscences that  had worked  their  way  into  his pores during his  sojourn   in  the  unconscious.  Proust   was  an  incomparable reader of the \f4\i Fleurs du mal, \f7\i0 for he sensed that  it contained  kin-\
\fi140533\sl-216\slmult1\li2840\ql
\fs18 \bullet  Here  you see the hellish picture that \fs20 one \fs18 night in \fs20 a \fs18 dream\
\sl-192\slmult1\li2960\f5 I \f7\fs16 saw  \fs18 unfolding  before \f5\fs16 my \f7\fs18 clairvoyant eyes;\
And, over in a corner  of this silent cave,\
\fi5
Myself \f5\fs16 I\f7\fs18 saw, hunched  up, cold, mute, and  envying, Envying  these people their  tenacious passion.\
\fi140533\sl-216\slmult1\li2800\qc
\f5 t \f7 And my heart took fright-to envy some poor man\
\sl-192\slmult1\li2980\ql
Who  ran in frenzy  to the sheer abyss,\
Who,  drunk  with the pulsing of his blood, preferred\
Grief  to death, and hell to nothingness.\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li3040\f4\i\fs12 180\
\li2840\qj
\f7\i0\fs22 ored elements. Familiarity with Baudelaire must include Proust's experience with him. Proust writes: "Time is peculiarly chopped up in Baudelaire; only a very few days open up, they are signifi\'ad cant ones. Thus it is understandable why turns  of phrases like\
\sl-240\slmult1
'one evening' occur  frequently in his works." These significant\
\sl216\slmult1
days are days of completing time, to  paraphrase Joubert. They are days of recollection, not marked by any  experience. They are not connected with the other days, but stand out from time. As for their substance, Baudelaire has defined it in the notion of the \f4\i\fs24 correspondances, \f7\i0\fs22 a concept that in Baudelaire stands side by side and unconnected with the notion of "modern beauty."\
\fi306
Disregarding the scholarly literature on the \f4\i\fs24 correspondances \f7\i0\fs22 (the  common property  of the mystics; Baudelaire encountered them in Fourier's  writings), Proust  no longer  fusses about  the artistic variations on the situation which are supplied by synaesthe\'ad sia. The  important  thing is that  the  \f4\i\fs24 correspondances  \f7\i0\fs22 record  a concept  of experience which includes ritual elements. Only  by appropriating these elements was Baudelaire able to fathom  the full meaning of the breakdown which he, a modern  man, was witnessing. Only in this way was he able to recognize in it the challenge meant for him alone, a challenge which he incorporated in the \f4\i\fs24 Fleurs du mal. \f5\i0\fs22 If \f7 there really is a secret architecture  in this book-and many speculations have been devoted to  it-the cycle of poems that opens the volume probably is devoted to something irretrievably lost. This  cycle includes two  sonnets whose motif is the same. The  first, entitled "Correspondances," begins with these lines:\
\fi140533\sl-336\slmult1\li3220\ql
\fs20 La Nature  est un temple \fs32 ou \fs20 de vivants piliers\
\sl144\slmult1
Laissent parfois sortir de confuses paroles; L'homme y passe \f5\fs26 a \f7\fs20 travers des forets de symboles\
\sl-216\slmult1
Qui l'observent avec des regards familiers.\
\li3240Comme de longs echos qui de loin se confondent\
\sl-192\slmult1\li3220Dans \fs18 une  tenebreuse \fs20 et profonde \fs18 unite,\
\li3240\fs20 Vaste comme la nuit et comme la clarte,\
\li3220Les parfums, les couleurs et les sons se repondent.\bullet \
\sl240\slmult1\li3060\fs18 \bullet  Nature  is a temple whose living pillars\
\sl-192\slmult1\li3220Sometimes give forth  a babel of words;\
\
\fi5\sl240\slmult1\li2640\qj
\fs20 What  Baudelaire meant by \f4\i\fs22 correspondances \f7\i0\fs20 may be described as an experience which seeks to establish itself in crisis-proof form. This  is possible only  within  the  realm of  the  ritual. \f5 If \f7 it trans\'ad cends this realm, \fs22 it \fs20 presents itself as the beautiful. In the beauti\'ad ful the ritual value of art appears.\fs12 13\
\fi289\li2660\fs20 The  \f4\i\fs22 eorrespondances \f7\i0\fs20 are  the  data of  remembrance-not \fs22 his.. \fs20 torical  data,  but  data  of  prehistory.  What   makes festive  days great and significant is the encount.er with  an earlier life. Baude\'ad\
\fi5
laire recorded  this 'in a sonnet  entitled "La  Vie anterieure.n The images of caves and vegetation, of clouds and waves which  are evoked  at  the  beginning  of  this  second  sonnet  rise from  the warm vapor of tears, tears of homesickness. ''The wanderer  looks into  the tear-veiled distance, and hysterical tears \f4\i\fs22 [sic] \f7\i0\fs20 well \fs24 up \fs20 in his eyes," writes Baudelaire in his review of the poems of Mar\'ad celine Desbordes-Valmore. There  are no simultaneous corre\'ad spondences, such as were cultivated  by the symbolists later. The murmur of the past may be heard in the correspondences, and the\'b7canonical  experience of them has its place in a previous life:\
\
\fi140533\sl-216\slmult1\li3000\ql
Les houles, en roulant les images des cieux,\
Melaient d'une \fs18 fa on\
\sl192\slmult1\li3020\qj
\fs20 Les tout-pu1ssants accords de leur riche musique Aux couleurs du couchant \fs24 reflete \fs20 par mes yeux. C'est \fs30 la \fs20 que j'ai vecu....\bullet \
\sl240\slmult1\li2660The  fact  that Proust's  restorative  will remains within  the  limits of earthly  existence, whereas  Baudelaire's transcends it,  may be regarded  as symptomatic  of  the  incomparably   more  elemental and  powerful  counterforces   that   Baudelaire  faced.  And  prob-\
\
\sl-216\slmult1\li2980\ql
\fs18 Man wends his way  through  forests \f4\i\fs20 of  \f7\i0\fs18 symbols\
\sl-168\slmult1\li2960\fs16 Which \fs18 look \fs16 at  him  with  their  familiar  \fs18 glances.\
\fi5\sl192\slmult1
\f4\i As \f7\i0 long-resounding echoes from afar \fs16 Are  mingling  \fs18 in \fs16 a \fs18 deep, dark \fs16 unity, Vast  as the  \fs18 night \fs16 or  as \fs18 the \fs20 orb of  \fs18 day,\
\fi140533\sl-192\slmult1\li2980Perfumes, \fs16 colors,  \fs18 and sounds commingle.\
\li2820\qc
\fs16 \bullet  The  breakers,  rolling  the \fs18 images of the sky,\
\fi5\sl192\slmult1\li2960\ql
\fs16 Mixed,  in  a mystical  and  solemn  \fs18 way, The  powerful \fs16 chords  \fs20 of \fs18 their rich music\
\fi140533\sl-192\slmult1\li2980\fs16 With   the  \fs18 colors \fs16 of  the  \fs18 sunset reflected in \f5 my \f7 eyes.\
\sl240\slmult1\li2960\fs16 There \fs18 did I live.\bullet \bullet \bullet \
\fi5\li2880\qj
\fs20 ably  he  nowhere   achieved  greater   perfection   than  when   he seems  resigned  to  being  overcome  by  them.  "RecueillementH traces the allegories of the old years against the deep sky:\
\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1\li3240\ql
. . . Vois se pencher les defuntes Annees\
\sl-216\slmult1
Sur les balcons du ciel, en robes surannees.\bullet \
\
\fi5\sl240\slmult1\li2880\qj
In these verses Baudelaire resigns himself to  paying  homage to times out of mind that escaped him in the guise of the outdated. When  Proust  in the last volume of his work  reverts to the sen\'ad sation that suffused him at the taste of a \f4\i madeleine, \f7\i0 he imagines the years which appear on the balcony as being loving sisters of the  years of  Combray.  "In  Baudelaire . . . these  reminiscences are even more numerous. It is apparent  that  they  are not  occa\'ad sioned by chance, and this, to my mind, is what gives them cru\'ad cial importance. There  is no one else who pursues the intercon\'ad nected \f4\i\fs24 correspondances \f7\i0\fs20 with such leisurely care, fastidiously and\
\fi140533\sl-216\slmult1
yet  nonchalantly-in a  woman's .smell, for  instance, in  the  fra\'ad\
\fi5\sl240\slmult1\li2860grance  of  her  hair  or  her  \f4\i breasts-correspondances \f7\i0 which  then yield him lines like 'the azure of the vast, vaulted sky' or 'a har\'ad bor full  of flames and  masts.' " These  words  are a confessional motto  for  Proust's  work.  It  bears a  relationship  to  Baudelaire's work, which has assembled the days of remembrance into a spir\'ad itual year.\
\fi306\sl-240\slmult1
But the \f4\i Fleurs du mal \f7\i0 would not  be what  it is \fs24 if  \fs20 all it con\'ad tained were this success. It is unique because it was able to- wrest from the inefficacy of the same consolation, the breakdown  of the\
\fi11\sl216\slmult1
same fervor,  the failure of the same effort  poems that are in no way  inferior  to  those  in  which  the  \f4\i\fs24 correspondances \f7\i0\fs20 celebrate their triumphs. "Spleen et ideal" is the first of the cycles in \f4\i\fs24 Les \fs20 Fleurs du mal. \f7\i0 The  \f4\i ideal \f7\i0 supplies the  power  of  remembrance; the \f4\i spleen \f7\i0 musters the multitude  of  the seconds against \fs22 it. \fs20 It  is their commander,  just as the devil is the lord of the flies. One of the  \f4\i\fs24 Spleen \f7\i0\fs20 poems, "Le  Gout  du  neant,"  says:  \f4\i "Le  Printemps\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1\li2840adorable a perdu son odeur!"  \f7\i0\fs26 t \fs20 In this line Baudelaire expresses\
\
\sl-216\slmult1\li3040\ql
\fs18 \bullet  . \bullet   \bullet   See the dead departed  Years in antiquated\
\sl-192\slmult1\li3180Dress leaning over  heaven's balconies.\
\sl240\slmult1\li3040\fs20 t \fs18 Spring, the Beloved, has lost its scent.\
\
\fi5\li2640\qc
\fs20 something extreme with extreme discretion; this makes \fs22 it \fs20 unmis\'ad takably  his. The  word  \f4\i\fs24 "perdu" \f7\i0\fs20 acknowledges  the  present state of collapse of that  experience which  he once shared. The  scent is the inaccessible refuge  of the \f4\i\fs24 memoire involontaire. \f7\i0\fs20 It  is un\'ad likely that it will associate itself with  a visual image; of all sen\'ad sual impressions it  will ally itself  only  with  the  same scent. \f5\fs22 If \f7\fs20 the recognition  of a scent is more privileged to provide consola\'ad tion than any other recollection, this may be so because it deeply drugs the sense of time. A scent rnay drown  years in the odor \fs22 it \fs20 recalls. This  gives a sense of  measureless desolation  to  Baude\'ad laire's verse. For  someone who is past experiencing, there  is no consolation. Yet it is this very inability  to experience that  lies at the  heart  of  rage. An angry  man "won't listen"; his prototype Timon  rages against people indiscriminately;  he is no longer  ca\'ad pable of telling his proven friend from his mortal enemy. D'Aure\'ad villy very  perceptively  recognized  this condition  in Baudelaire,\
\li2660\qj
calling him "a Timon  with the genius of Archilochus." The  out\'ad breaks of rage are timed to the ticking  of the seconds to which the  melancholy man is slave.\
\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1\li3000\ql
Et le Temps m'engloutit minute par minute,\
\sl-216\slmult1
Comme la neige immense un corps pris de roideur.\bullet \
\
\fi5\sl240\slmult1\li2640\qj
These verses follow immediately after those quoted above. In the \f4\i\fs24 spleen, \f7\i0\fs20 time becomes palpable; the minutes cover a man like snowflakes. This time is outside history, as is that of the \f4\i\fs24 memoire involontaire. \f7\i0\fs20 But in the \f4\i\fs24 spleen \f7\i0\fs20 the  perception  of  time is super\'ad naturally  keen; every second finds consciousness ready  to inter\'ad cept its shock.\f5\fs12 14\
\fi300
\f7\fs20 Even though chronology  places regularity  above permanence, it cannot prevent heterogeneous, conspicuous fragments from re\'ad maining within  it. To  have combined  recognition  of  a  quality with the measurement of the quantity  was the work of the calen\'ad dars in which the places of recollection are left blank, as it were, in the form of holidays. The  man who loses his capacity  for  ex\'ad periencing feels as though  he is dropped from  the calendar. The\
\
\fi140533\sl-192\slmult1\li2840\ql
\fs18 \bullet  And, minute \f5\fs16 by \f7\fs18 minute, Time  engulfs me,\
\li2960As the snow's measureless fall covers \fs20 a.  \fs18 motionless body.\
\sl240\slmult1\li2900\qj
\fs22 big-city dweller knows this feeling on Sundays; Baudelaire has it\
\sl-264\slmult1
\f4\i avant la lettre \f7\i0 in one of the \f4\i Spleen \f7\i0 poems.\
\sl-336\slmult1\li3240\ql
\fs20 Des cloches tout \fs32 a \fs20 coup sautent avec furie\
\sl-192\slmult1
Et lancent vers le ciel un affreux hurlement,\
\sl-168\slmult1
Ainsi que des esprits errants et sans pattie\
\sl-264\slmult1
Qui se mettent \fs32 a \fs20 geindre opiniatrement.\bullet \
\fi17\sl216\slmult1\li2860\qj
\fs22 The bells, which once were part of holidays, have been dropped from the calendar, like the human beings. They are like the poor souls that wander restlessly, but outside of history. \f5 If \f7 Baudelaire \f5 in \f7 "Spleen" and "Vie anterieure" holds in his hands the scattered fragments of genuine historical experience, Bergson in his concep\'ad tion of the \f4\i duree \f7\i0 has become far more estranged from history. "Bergson the  metaphysician suppresses death."  The  fact  that death is eliminated from  Bergson's \f4\i duree \f7\i0 isolates it  effectively from a historical (as well as prehistorical) order. Bergson's con\'ad cept  of  \f4\i action \f7\i0 is in  keeping with  this. The  "sound  common sense" which distinguishes the "practical man" has been its god\'ad father. The \f4\i duree \f7\i0 from which death has been eliminated has the miserable endlessness of a scroll. Tradition is excluded from it.\fs14 15\
\fi5
\fs22 It is the quintessence of a passing moment \f4\i [Erlehnis] \f7\i0 that struts about in the borrowed  garb of experience. The  \f4\i spleen, \f7\i0 on the other hand, exposes the passing moment in all its nakedness. To his horror, the melancholy man sees the earth revert to a mere state of nature. No breath of prehistory surrounds it: there is no aura. This is how the earth emerges in the verses of "Le  Gout du neant" which follow the ones we. have quoted.                      '\
\
\fi140533\sl-216\slmult1\li3200\ql
\fs20 Je contemple d'en haut le globe en sa rondeur, Et  je n'y cherche plus l'abri d'une cahute.t\
\
\sl216\slmult1\li3180\fs18 \bullet  Suddenly  bells leap forth  \f5 with \f7 fury, Hurling  a hideous howling to the sky Like wandering  homeless \fs16 spirits\
\sl-192\slmult1\li3160\fs18 Who  break into  stubborn  wailing.\
\
\sl-168\slmult1
\fs20 t \fs18 And from  on high I contemplate the globe in its roundness; No longer do I look there for the shelter of a hut.\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li2960\f8 XI\
\
\fi334\li2640\f5\fs22 If \f7\fs20 we designate as aura the associations which, at home in the \f4\i mbnoire involontaire, \f7\i0 tend to cluster around the object of a per\'ad ception, then its analogue in the case of a utilitarian object is the experience which has left traces of the practiced hand. The  tech\'ad niques based on the use of the  camera and of subsequent  anal\'ad ogous mechanical devices extend the range of the \f4\i memoire volon\'ad taire; \f7\i0 by  means of  these devices they  make it  possible for  an event at any time to be permanently  recorded  in terms of sound and sight. Thus  they  represent important  achievements of a so\'ad ciety  in  which  practice  is in  decline. To  Baudelaire  there  was something  profoundly  unnerving  and  terrifying   about  daguer\'ad reotypy; he speaks of the fascination it exerted as "startling  and cruel., Thus  he must have sensed, though  he certainly  did  not see through  them, the connections of which we have spoken. His willingness always to grant the modern its place and, especially in art, to assign it its specific function  also determined  his attitude toward  photography.  Whenever  he felt it as a threat, he tried to put it down  to its "mistaken developments"; yet he admitted that these were  promoted  \f5\fs22 by \f7\fs20 "the  stupidity   of  the  broad  masses." "These  masses demanded  an ideal that  would  conform  to  their aspirations and the nature of their temperament.... Their  prayers were  granted\'b7  by  a  vengeful  god,  and  Daguerre   became  his prophet."  Nevertheless, Baudelaire tried  to take a more concilia\'ad tory  view. Photography should be free  to stake out a claim for ephemeral  things, those, that  have a right  "to  a place in the  ar\'ad chives of our memory," as long as it stops short of the "region of the  intangible,  imaginative":  that  of  art  in  which  only  that  is allotted  a place "on  which  man has bestowed  the imprint  of his soul." This  is scarcely  a Solomonian  judgment.  The   perpetual readiness of  volitional, discursive memory,  encouraged  by  the technique  of mechanical reproduction,  reduces the scope for the play of the imagination. The  latter may perhaps be defined as an ability to give expression to desires of a special kind \fs8 1  \fs20 with "some\'ad thing  beautiful"  thought  of as their  fulfillment.  Valery  has set forth  the conditions for  this fulfillment: "We  recognize a work\
\
\fi140533\li3040\f4\i\fs16 t86\
\
\li3200\fs20 On Some Motifs \f5\i0\fs14 jn \f4\i\fs20 Baudelajre\
\fi5\li2820\f7\i0\fs22 of art by the fact that no idea it inspires in us, no mode of be havior that it suggests we adopt could exhaust it or dispose of it. We may inhale the smell of a .flower whose fragrance is agree\'ad able to us for as long as we like; it is impossible for us to rid our\'ad selves of the fragrance by which our senses have been aroused, and no recollection, no thought, no mode of behavior can ob\'ad literate its effect or release us from the hold it has on us. He who has set himself the task of creating a work of art aims at the same effect." According to this view, the painting we look at reflects back at us that of which our eyes will never have their fill. What it contains that fulfills the original desire would be the very same stuff on which the desire continuously feeds. What  distinguishes photography  from  painting is therefore  clear, and  why  there can  be  no encompassing principle of  "creation,  applicable to both: to  the eyes that  will never have their fill of a  painting, photography is rather like food for the hungry or drink for the thirsty.\
\fi294\sl-240\slmult1\li2840The  crisis of artistic reproduction  which  manifests itself in this way can be seen as an integral part of a crisis in perception\
\fi5\li2820itself. Whut prevents our delight in the beautiful from ever being satisfied is the image of  the past, which Baudelaire regards as\
\sl240\slmult1\qj
veiled by  the tears of nostalgia. \f4\i\fs20 "Ach,  du warst in abgelebten Zeiten meine Schwester. oder meine Frau!" \f7\i0\fs22 \bullet -this declaration of love is the tribute which the beautiful as such is entitled to claim. Insofar as art  aims at  the beautiful and, on however modest a scale, "reproduces" it, it conjures it up (as Faust does Helen) out of the womb of time.\fs14 16  \fs22 This no longer happens in the case of technical reproduction. (The beautiful has no place in it.) Proust, complaining of the barrenness and lack of depth in the images of venice  that his \f4\i\fs20 memoire volontaire \f7\i0\fs22 presented to him, notes that the very  word  "Venice" made that  wealth of  images seem to him as vapid as an exhibition of photographs. \f5 If \f7 the distinctive feature of the images that rise from the \f4\i\fs20 memoire involontaire \f7\i0\fs22 is seen in their aura, then photography is decisively implicated in the phenomenon of the "decline of the aura." What  was inevi-\
\
\fi140533\li3040\qc
\fs18 \bullet  "Oh,  you were in time gone by \fs20 my \fs18 sister or \fs20 my \fs18 wife.'' (Goethe.)\
\
\li3000\ql
\f4\i\fs20 lllumi'!Uitions\
\
\li2640\qj
\f7\i0 tably felt to be inhuman, one might even say deadly, in daguer\'ad reotypy was the  (prolonged)  looking into the camera, since the camera  records  our  likeness  without  returning   our  gaze.  But looking at someone carries the implicit expectation that our look will be returned  by the object of our gaze. Where  this expecta\'ad tion is met  (which,  in the case of thought  processes, can apply equally to the look of the eye of the mind and to a glance pure and simple),  there is an experience of the aura to the fullest ex\'ad tent. "Perceptibility," as Nova1is puts it, "is a kind  of attentive\'ad ness." The  perceptibility  he has in mind is none other  than  that of the aura. Experience of the aura thus rests on the transposition of a response common in human relationships to the relationship between the inanimate or natural object and man. The  person we look at, or  ho\
\sl-264\slmult1
To  perceive the aura of an object we look at means \fs32 to \fs20 invest it\
\sl-216\slmult1
with  the ability to look at us in return.17 This experience corre\'ad\
\fi11\sl240\slmult1
sponds to the data of the \f4\i\fs24 memoire involontaire. \f7\i0\fs20 (These  data, in\'ad cidentally, are unique: they are lost to the memory that seeks to retain  them. Thus  they  lend support  to  a concept  of  the  aura that comprises the "unique manifestation of a distance." This designation has the advantage of clarifying  the ceremonial  char\'ad\
\fi5
acter of the phenomenon. The essentially distant is the inap\'ad proachable:  inapproachability  \f5 is \f7 in fact  a primary  quality  of the ceremonial image.) Proust's great familiarity with the problem of the aura requires no emphasis. Nevertheless, it is notable that  he alludes to  \fs22 it  \fs20 at  times in  terms  which  comprehend  its  theory: "Some  people  who  are  fond  of  secrets  flatter  themse1ves that objects  retain  something  of  the gaze that  has rested  on  them/' (The  ability, it  would seem, of returning  the gaze.)  "They  be\'ad lieve that  monuments  and  pictures  present  themselves only  be\'ad neath the delicate veil which centuries of love and reverence  on the part of so many admirers have woven about  them. This chi\'ad mera," Proust  concludes  evasively, "would  change  into  truth  \fs24 if \fs20 they  related it to the only reality that is valid for  the individual, namely, the world  of his emotions." Valery's  characterization  of perception  in dreams as aural is akin to this and, by virtue of its objective orientation, reaches further.  "To say, 'Here  I see such\
\
\fi140533\li3020\ql
\f4\i\fs16 188\
\li2840\qj
\f7\i0\fs20 and such an object'  does not establish an  equation  between  me and the object.... In dreams, however, there is an equation. The things I see, see me just as much as I see them." On a level with perception  in dreams \fs22 is \fs20 the nature  of  temples, of which  Baude\'ad laire said:\
\sl-360\slmult1\li3180\ql
L'homme y passe \fs32 a \fs20 travers  des forets  de symboles\
\sl-192\slmult1\li3200Qui  l'observent avec des regards  familiers.\fs10 411\
\
\fi300\sl240\slmult1\li2840\qj
\fs20 The  greater  Baudelaire's insight  into  this  phenomenon,  the more unmistakably  did the disintegration of the aura make itself felt  in his lyrical  poetry.  This  occurs  in  the  form  of a symbol which we encounter  in the \f4\i\fs24 Fleurs du mal \f7\i0\fs20 almost invariably when\'ad ever the look of the human eye is invoked. (That Baudelaire did not  follow  some  preconceived  scheme  goes  without   saying.) What  is involved here \fs22 is \fs20 that the expectation  roused by the look of  the  human  eye is not  fulfilled. Baudelaire  describes eyes  of which  one is inclined  to say that  they  have lost their  ability  to look. Yet this lends them a charm which  to a large, perhaps pre\'ad\
\fi22\sl216\slmult1
dominant,  extent serves as a means of defraying  the cost  of  his instinctual desires. It was under the spell of these eyes that \f4\i\fs24 sexus \f7\i0\fs20 in Baudelaire detached  itself from  \f4\i\fs24 eros. \f5\i0\fs22 If \f7\fs20 in "Selige Sehnsucht, the lines\
\
\fi5\sl192\slmult1\li3200\ql
Keine Ferne  macht  dich schwierig, Kommst  geflogen  und  gebannt \f5\fs24 t\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li2840\qj
\f7\fs20 must be regarded  as the classic description  of that love which  is sated with  the  experience  of  the aura,  then  lyric  poetry  could hardly offer a greater challenge to those lines  than Baudelaire's\
\
\fi140533\li3200\ql
Je t'adore  a l'egal de la voute nocturne,\
\sl-192\slmult1
0 vase de tristesse, o grande  tacitume,\
\fi11\sl-216\slmult1
Et  t'aime  d'autant plus, belle, que  tu  me fuis, Et que  \fs16 tu  \fs20 me parais, omement de mes nuits,\
\
\fi140533\sl-168\slmult1\li3180\fs18 \bullet  Man wends his way through  forests of symbols . Which  look \fs16 at  \fs18 him with  their familiar glances.\
\sl-216\slmult1\li3080\fs20 t \fs18 No  distance  makes you  difficult; you  come flying,  and  stay  under  a\
\sl-192\slmult1\li2840\qj
\fs20 spell. \fs18 (Goethe.)\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li3040\ql
\f4\i\fs20 Illuminatiom\
\sl-240\slmult1
\f7\i0 Plus ironiquement accurnuler Ies lieues\
\sl-192\slmult1
Qui separent mes bras des imrnensites bleues.\bullet \
\sl240\slmult1\li2700\qj
The  deeper the remoteness which a glance has to overcome, the stronger  will be the spell that is apt to.emanate from the gaze. In eyes that look at us with  a mirrorlike  blankness the  remoteness remains complete. It  is precisely for  this reason that  such  eyes know  nothing  of distance. Baudelaire incorporated   the smooth\'ad ness of their stare in a subtle couplet:\
\
\li3040\ql
Plonge tes yeux dans des yeux fixes\
\sl-216\slmult1
Des Satyresses ou des Nixes.t\
\
\fi5\sl240\slmult1\li2700\qj
Female satyrs and nymphs are no longer members of the family of man. Theirs is a world apart. Significantly, Baudelaire injected into  his poem  the look  of  the  eye  encumbered  by  distance  as \f4\i\fs22 regard  familier. \f7\i0\fs20 The  poet who failed to found a family endowed the word \f4\i\fs22 familier \f7\i0\fs20 with overtones pervaded by promise and re\'ad nunciation. He has lost himself to the spell of eyes which do not return  his glance and submits to their sway without  illusions.\
\
\fi140533\li3040\ql
Tes yeux, illumines ainsi que des boutiques\
\sl-216\slmult1
Et des ifs flamboyants dans les fetes publiques,\
\li3060Usent insolemment d'un  pouvoir emprunte.:j:\
\
\fi5\sl240\slmult1\li2720\qj
"Dullness,'' says Baudelaire in one of his earliest publications, "is frequently  an ornament of beauty. It is to this that we owe it if eyes  are  sad  and  translucent  like  blackish swamps  or  if  their gaze  has the  oily  inertness  of  tropical  seas., When  such  eyes come alive, \fs22 it \fs20 is with  the se1f-protective wariness of a wild ani-\
\
\fi140533\sl-192\slmult1\li3020\ql
\fs18 "' No less than the night's vault do I adore you, Vessel of sorrow, 0 deeply silent one,\
\sl-168\slmult1\li3040And even more I love you, my lovely one,\
\sl-192\slmult1\li3020Because you flee from  me and, ornament of my nights,\
Ironically  you seem to multiply the miles\
That  separate my anns  from  blue immensities.\
\sl-216\slmult1\li2860\qc
\fs20 t \fs18 Let your eyes look  deeply into the fixed stare\
\sl-192\slmult1\li3020\ql
Of Satyresses or of Nymphs.\
\sl-216\slmult1\li2900\f4\i\fs20 t \f7\i0\fs18 Your eyes, lit up like shop windows\
\sl-168\slmult1\li3040And trees illuminated for  public celebrations,\
\sl-192\slmult1\li3020With  insolence make use of borrowed  power.\
\sl240\slmult1\li2880\qj
\fs20 mal hunting for prey. (Thus  the eye of the prostitute scrutinizing the passers-by is at the same time on its guard  against the police. Baudelaire found  the physiognomic type bred by this kind of life delineated  in  Constantin  Guys's  numerous  drawings  of  prosti\'ad tutes. "Her  eyes, like those of  a wild animal, are  fixed on  the distant horizon; they  have the restlessness of a wild animal ... , but sometimes also the  animal's sudden  tense vigilance.")  That the eye of the city dweller is overburdened  with protective  func\'ad tions \f4\i\fs24 is \f7\i0\fs20 obvious. Georg  Simmel refers to some less obvious tasks\
\sl-216\slmult1\li2900with which it is charged. ''The  person who is able to see but un\'ad\
\fi5\sl240\slmult1\li2880able to hear is much  more . . . troubled  than  the person who  is able to hear but unable to see. Here is something  ... character\'ad istic of the big city. The  interpersonal  relationships of people in big cities are characterized  by  a markedly  greater  emphasis on the use of the eyes than on that  of the ears. This  can be attrib\'ad uted  chiefly  to  the  institution   of  public  conveyances.  Before buses, railroads, and  streetcars  became  fully  established  during the nineteenth  century,  people were  never  put  in a position  of having to stare at one another for  minutes or even hours on end without  exchanging a word.''\
\fi300\li2900There  is no daydreaming surrender  to faraway  things in the protective  eye.  It  may  even  cause  one  to  feel  something  like pleasure in the degradation  of such abandonment.  This  is prob\'ad ably  the sense in which  the following  curious  sentences should be read. In his "Salon of 1859" Baudelaire lets the landscapes pass in review, concluding  with  this admission: "I long for the return of the dioramas whose enormous, crude magic subjects me to the spell of a useful illusion. I prefer looking at the backdrop  paint\'ad ings of the stage where I find my favorite dreams treated with consummate  skill  and  tragic  concision.  Those  things,  so  com\'ad pletely false, are for  that  very  reason much  closer to  the  truth, whereas the majority of our landscape painters are liars, precisely because they fail to lie." One is inclined to attach less importance to  the  "useful  illusion"  than  to  the  \f4\i "tragic \f7\i0 concision."  Baude\'ad\
\fi140533\sl-216\slmult1
laire insists on the magic of distance; he goes so far as to  judge\
\sl-240\slmult1
landscapes by  the  standard  of  paintings  in  the  booths  at  fairs. Does he mean the magic of distance to be pierced, as must needs\
\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li3280\ql
\f4\i\fs12 ljl\
\
\sl-240\slmult1\li2580\qr
\f7\i0\fs20 happen when the spectator steps too close to the depicted scene? This is embodied in one of the great verses of the \f4\i Fleurs du mal:\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li2960\ql
\f7\i0 Le Plaisir vaporeux fuira  vers !'horizon\
\sl-216\slmult1
Ainsi qu'une  sylphide  au \fs16 fopd \fs20 de la coulisse.\bullet \
\
\sl240\slmult1\li2920\fs16 X I I\
\
\fi294\li2620\qj
\f4\i\fs20 Les  Fleurs du mal \f7\i0 was the last lyric  work  that  had a Euro\'ad pean repercussion; no later work  penetrated  beyond  a more or less limited linguistic area. Added  to this is the fact  that  Baude\'ad laire expended his productive capacity almost entirely on this one work.  And, finally, it cannot be .denied that some of his motifs\'ad and the present study  has dealt with  them-render the possibility of lyric  poetry  questionable. These  three facts define Baudelaire historically. They  show that he imperturbably  stuck to his cause and single-mindedly concentrated  on his mission. He went so far as to proclaim as his goal "the  creation  of a cliche." In  this he saw the condition of every future  poet; he had a low opinion of those who were not up to it. "Do you drink beef tea made of ambrosia? Do you  eat cutlets  from Paras?  How  much  do  they give in the pawnshop for  a lyre?" To  Baudelaire, the lyric  poet with  a halo is antiquated. In a prose piece which  came to light at a late date, "A Lost Halo," Baudelaire has such a poet appear as a  supernumerary. When   Baudelaire's  literary  remains  were\
\fi140533\li2640\ql
.first exa ined,\
\fi5\li2600\qr
cion"; to this day it has been neglected by Baudelaire scholarship. "'What do I see, my dear fellow? \f4\i You-here? \f7\i0 I find \f4\i you \f7\i0 in a place of \f5\fs22 ill \f7\fs20 repute-a man who sips quintessences, who consumes\
\fi140533\li2640\ql
ambrosia? Really! I couldn't  be more surprised.'\
\fi283\qj
" 'You know, my dear fellow, how afraid I am of horses and carriages. A short while ago I was hurrying  across the boulevard\f5\fs8 1 \f7\fs20 and amidst this moving chaos \f5\fs16 jn \f7\fs20 which death comes galloping at you from all sides at once I must have made an awkward  move\'ad ment, for the halo slipped off my head and fell onto the  muddy asphalt pavement. I didn't  have the  courage  to  pick it  up,  and\
\
\fi140533\sl-216\slmult1\li2840\ql
\fs16 ""Nebulous  \fs20 Pleasure \fs16 horizonward will .flee,\
\sl-192\slmult1\li2980\fs20 Just \fs18 like \fs20 a \fs16 sylph  \fs18 behind the \fs16 wings.\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li3220\f4\i\fs20 On Some Morifr in Baudelaire\
\li2840\qj
\f7\i0 decided that it hurts less to lose one's insignia than to have one's bones  broken.  And  furthermore, I  said to  myself, every  cloud has a silver lining. Now  I can go about incognito,  do bad things, and indulge in vulgar  behavior like ordinary  mortals. So here I am, just like you!'\
\sl-240\slmult1\li3160\ql
" 'But you ought  to report  the loss of your  halo or inquire at\
\sl240\slmult1\li2860\qj
the lost-and-found  office.'\
\fi306
" 'I wouldn't  dream of it. I like it here. You are the only  per\'ad son who has recognized me. Besides, dignity  bores me. And I en\'ad joy  the  thought  that  some bad poet  will pick  up  the  halo  and won't  think twice about adorning himself with \fs22 it. \fs20 There  is noth\'ad ing I like better  than  to make someone  happy-especially if the happy  man is one I can laugh at. Just  picture  X. wearing it, or Y.! Won't that be funny?' ,\
\sl-240\slmult1\li2880The  same motif may be found in the diaries; only the ending is different. The  poet quickly picks the halo up; but now he is bothered  by the feeling that the incident  may be a bad omen.\fs12 18\
\sl240\slmult1
\fs20 The  man who  wrote  these pieces was no  \f4\i flaneur. \f7\i0 They  em\'ad body, in ironic form, the same experiences which  Baudelaire put into this sentence, without  any trimmings and in passing: \f4\i "Perdu dans ce vilain monde, \f7\i0 coudoye  par les fou]es, \f4\i je suis comme un hom:me lasse don't l'oeil ne voit en arriere, dans les annees pro\'ad\
\fi140533\li2900fondes, que desabusement et rnnertume, et, devant lui, qu'un orage \fs22 oil   \fs20 rien de neuf n'est  contenu, ni enseignement  ni douleur." \f7\i0 \bullet  Of  all the experiences which  made his life what  it  was, Baude\'ad laire singled out his having been jostled by the crowd  as tpe de\'ad cisive, unique experience. The  luster  of a crowd  with  a motion and a soul of its own, the glitter  that  had bedazzled the  \f4\i flaneur, \f7\i0 had  dimmed  for  him. To  impress the  crowd's  meanness upon himself, he envisaged the day on which even the lost women, the\
\fi5
outcasts, would  be ready  to  advocate  a well-ordered  life, con\'ad demn  libertinism, and reject  everything  except  money.  Having been  betrayed  by  these last allies of  his, Baudelaire battled  the\
\
\fi140533\sl-192\slmult1\li3140\ql
\fs8 \bullet  14\fs18 Lost in this mean world,  jostled by the crowd, I am like a weary  man\
\li2900whose eye, looking backwards, into the depth of the years, sees nothing  but\
disillusion and bitterness, and before him nothing  but a tempest which  con\'ad\
tains nothing  new, neither instruction  nor  pain."\
\fi11\sl-240\slmult1\li2660\qj
\fs20 crowd-with the impotent  rage of someone fighting  the  rain  or the  wind. This  is the  nature  of something  lived through   \f4\i (Er\'ad lehnis) \f7\i0 to which  Baudelaire has given  the  weight  of  an experi\'ad ence  \f4\i (Erfahrung). \f7\i0 He  indicated the  price for  which  the  sensa\'ad tion  of  the  modern  age \fs22 may \fs20 be had:  the  disintegration  of  the aura in the experience of shock. He  paid dearly for  consenting to this disintegration-but it is the law of his poetry, which shines in the sky of the Second Empire as "a star without  atmosphere.',\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\fi140533\sl240\slmult1\li3060\ql
\f4\i\fs16 194\
\
\
\
\li3160\fs22 Notes\
\
\
\
\
\
\fi294\sl216\slmult1\li2840\f7\i0\fs14 1. \fs20 To endow this crowd with a soul is the very special purpose of the  \f4\i flaneur. \f7\i0 His encounters  with it  are  the  experience that  he does not  tire of telling about. Cenain  reflexes of this illusion are an inte gral part of Baudelaire's work. It has continued \fs18 to  \fs20 be an active force to this day. Jules Romains's \f4\i unrmimisme \f5\i0 is \f7 an admired late flowering of it.\
\fi277\sl240\slmult1\qj
\f4\i\fs14 2. \f7\i0\fs20 Characteristic of Barbier's method is his poem "Londres" which \f5 in \f7\fs16 24 \fs20 lines describes the city, awkwardly  closing with  the following verses:\
\fi140533\sl-216\slmult1\li3140\ql
Entin, dans un amas de chases, sombre, immense, Un peuple noir, vivant et rnourant en silence.\
Des etres par milliers, suivant !'instinct  fatal,\
Et courant a pres l'or  par le bien et le mal.\bullet \
\
\fi11\li2860\qj
(Auguste  Barbier, \f4\i Jambes et poemes. \f7\i0 Paris, \fs18 1841.)  \fs20 Barbier's tenden\'ad tious poems, particularly  the London  cycle,  \f4\i Lazare, \f7\i0 influenced Bau\'ad delaire more profoundly than people have been willing to admit. Baudelaire's "Crepuscule du soir" concludes as follows:\
\fi2884\sl216\slmult1\li3140\ql
. . . ils finissent Leur destinee et vont vers le gouffre commun; L'hopital  se remplit  de leurs soupirs.-Plus d,un Ne viendra plus chercher Ia soupe parfumee,\
\fi140533\sl-216\slmult1
Au coin du feu, le soir, aupres d'une rune aimee.t\
\
\fi5\li2880\qj
Compare this with the end of the eighth stanza of Barbier's "Mineurs de Newcastle":\
\
\fi140533\sl216\slmult1\li3200\ql
\bullet  Finally, \fs18 within a huge and somber mass of things, A blackened feople, who live and die in silence. Thousands  o   beings, who follow a fatal instinct, Pursuing  gold with good and evil means.\
\
\li3180\fs20 t \tab \tab . . . \fs18 their fate Accomplished, they approach  the common  pit; Their  sighings fill the ward.-More than one Will  come no more to get his fragrant  soup,\
\sl-192\slmult1\li3200At  night, by the fireside, next to a beloved one.\
\li2920\fs20 Et plus d'un qui revait dans le fond de son arne\
\sl-264\slmult1\li2900Aux douceurs du logis, \fs30 a \fs20 l'oeil bleu de sa femme,\
\sl-192\slmult1\li2920Trouve  au ventre du gouffre un eternel tombeau.\bullet \
\sl-216\slmult1\li2640With  a little  masterful retouching Baudelaire turns a "miner's  fate" into the commonplace end of big-city dwellers.\
\fi283\sl216\slmult1\qj
3. The  motif of love for a woman passing by occurs in an early poem by Stefan George. The  poet has missed the important  thing: the  stream  in  which  the  woman  moves  past, borne  along  \f5 by  \f7 the crowd.  The  result is a self-conscious elegy. The  poet's glances-so he must confess to his lady-have "moved away, moist with longing/ before they dared mingle with yours" (".\bullet .  \f4\i feucht vor sehnen fort\'ad gezogenfeh  sie in deine sich zu tauchen trauten." \f7\i0 Stefan  George, \f4\i Hymnen. Pilgerfahrten. Algabal. \f7\i0 Berlin,  \fs12 1922. ). \fs20 Baudelaire leaves no doubt that \f4\i he \f7\i0 looked deep into the eyes of the passer-by.\
\fi277\sl240\slmult1
4\'b7 This passage has a parallel \f5 in \f7 "Un  Jour de pluie." Even though it bears another name, this poem must be ascribed to Baudelaire. The last verse, which gives the poem its extraordinarily  somber quality, has an exact counterpart  in "The  Man of the  Crowd." Poe  writes: "The  rays of the gas lamps, feeble at .first in their struggle with  the dying day, had now at length gained ascendancy, and threw over everything  a .fitful and garish luster. All was dark  yet  splendid-as that ebony to which has been likened the style of Tertullian." This coincidence is all the more astonishing here as the following  verses were written  in 1843 at the latest, a period when Baudelaire did not know Poe.\
\fi5\sl-216\slmult1\li2920\ql
Chacun, nous coudoyant sur le trottoir glissant, Egoiste et brutalt passe et nous eclabousse,\
\fi140533
Ou, pour courir ,:plus vite, en s'eloignant nous pousse.\
Partout fange, deluge, obscurite du del. Noir tableau qu'eut reve lenoir  Ezechiel.t\
\sl240\slmult1\li2900\fs16 5. \fs20 There  is something \'b7demonic about  Poe's businessmen. One \f5 is\
\sl-216\slmult1\li2620\f7 reminded of Marx, who blamed the "feverishly youthful  pace of rna-\
\
\li2820\fs18 \bullet  And  more than  one who in his heart of hearts had  dreams\
\sl-168\slmult1\li2960\fs16 Of  \fs18 home, sweet home, and of his wife's blue \fs16 eyes,\
\sl-192\slmult1
\fs18 Finds, within  the \fs16 belly  \fs18 of the \fs20 pic, \fs18 an everlasting tomb.\
\sl-216\slmult1\li2820\f5\fs16 t \f7\fs18 Each one, elbowing us upon the \fs20 slippery \fs18 sidewalk,\
\sl-192\slmult1\li2960\fs16 Selfish and  \fs18 savage goes \f5\fs16 by \f7 and  splashes \fs18 us,\
Or,  to run  the faster, gives us a posh as he makes off.\
\li2940Mod everywhere,  deluge, darkness in the sky.\
A somber  scene that  Ezekiel the somber  might  have  dreamed.\
\sl240\slmult1\li2860\qj
\fs20 terial production" \f5 in \f7 the United States for  the lack of "either time or opportunity  ... to abolish the old world  of the spirit." As darkness descends, Baudelaire has "the  harmful demons" awaken in the air "sluggish as a bunch  of  businessmen." This  passage in "Crepuscule du soir" may have been inspired by Poe's text.\
\fi272
6. A\'b7pedestrian  knew  how  to  display  his nonchalance  provoca\'b7 cively on certain  occasions. Around  r84o it  was briefly fashionable to take turtles for a walk in the arcades. The  \f4\i\fs18 fianeurs \f7\i0\fs20 liked to have the turtles set the pace for them. \f5 If \f7 they had had their way, progress would have been obliged to accommodate itself to this pace. But this attitude  did  not  prevail; Taylor,  who  popularized  the  watchword "Down  with dawdling!," carried  the day.\
\fi283\sl-216\slmult1\li28407\'b7 In  Glassbrenner's  character  the  man  of  leisure  appears  as  a paltry scion of the \f4\i citoyen. \f7\i0 Nante, Berlin's street-corner  boy, has no reason to  bestir  himself. He  makes himself at  home on  the  street, which naturally does not lead him anywhere, and is as comfortable as the philistine is in his four  walls.\
\fi277\sl240\slmult1\li28608. What  leads up  to  this confession is remarkable. The  visitor says that the cousin watches the bustle down  below only because he enjoys the changing play of the colors; in the long run, he says, this must be tiring. In a similar vein, and probably  not much later, Gogol wrote  of a fair in the  Ukraine: "So many  people were on their  way there that it made one's eyes swim." The daily sight of a lively crowd may  once  have constituted  a spectacle to which  one's eyes had  to adapt first. On the basis of this supposition, one may assume that once the eyes had mastered this task they welcomed opportunities  to  test their  newly acquired  faculties. This  would  mean that the technique of Impressionist painting, whereby the picture is garnered in a riot of dabs of color, would be a re.flection of  experiences with which  the eyes  of  a  big-city  dweller  have  become  familiar.  A  picture  like Monet's "Cathedral of Chartres," which \fs18 is \fs20 like an ant-heap of stone, would be an illustration of this hypothesis.\
\fi272
9\'b7 In his story E. T. A. Hoffmann devotes edifying reflections, for imtance, to the blind man who lifts his head toward  the sky. In the last line of "Les Aveugles," Baudelaire, who knew  this story,  modi\'ad fies Hoffmann's reflections \f5 in \f7 such a way as to disprove their edify\'ad ing quality: \f4\i "Que  chercbent-ilr au Ciel, tous ces aveugles?" \f7\i0 [What are all those blind people l<;Joking for in the sky?]\
\fi140533\li3160\ql
\f5\fs12 1\f7\fs20 o. The shoner  the training period of an industrial worker is, the\
\
\li3300\f4\i\fs16 197\
\
\li3060\fs20 Illuminatiom\
\fi5\li2680\qj
\f7\i0 longer that of a military man becomes. It  may  be part of society's preparation  for  total war that  training is shifting from  the  practice of production  to the practice of destruction.\
\fi294
\fs12 1 \fs18 r. \fs20 Gambling invalidates the standards of experience. It  may  be due to an obscure sense of this that the "vulgar appeal to experience,. (Kant)  has particular currency among gamblers. A gambler says "my number" in the same way as a man about town says "my type." To\'ad ward the end of the Second Empire  this attitude  prevailed. "On  the boulevards it was customary to attribute  everything to chance." This disposition is promoted by betting, which is a device for giving events the character of a shock, detaching them from the context of experi.. ence. For  the  bourgeoisie, even political events were apt  to assume the form of occurrences at the gambling table.\
\fi283\sl-216\slmult1
\fs12 I 2,   \fs20 The narcotic effect that is involved here is specified as to time, like the malady that it is supposed to alleviate. Time is the material into  which the phantasmagoria of gambling has been woven. In his \f4\i Faucheurs de nuits \f7\i0 Gourdon  de Genouillac writes: "I claim that the mania for gambling is the noblest of all passions, for it includes all\
\fi140533\sl-264\slmult1
the others. \f5 A \f7 series of lucky  \f4\i coups \f7\i0 gives me more pleasure than  \fs34 a\
\sl-192\slmult1
\fs20 non-gambler can have in years\bullet \bullet .. \f5 If \f7 you think that \f5 I \fs18 see \f7\fs20 only profit\
\sl240\slmult1
in the gold that falls to my share, you are mistaken. \f5 I \f7 see in it  the pleasures that  it  gets me, and \f5 I\f7 enjoy  them fully. They  come  too quickly to make me weary, and there are too many of them for me to get  bored. \f5 I \f7 live a hundred  lives in one. When  \f5 I\f7 travel, it is  the\
\fi5\sl216\slmult1\li2660way that an electric spark travels.... \f5 If I \f7 am stingy and reserve my bank notes for  gambling, it is because \f5 I \f7 know the value of time  too well to invest them as other  people do. A certain enjoyment  that  I might permit myself would cost me a thousand other enjoyments.... \f5 I\f7 have  intellectual pleasures and want  no others."  In the  fine notes on gambling \f5 in \f7 his \f4\i Jardin d'E:.picure, \f7\i0 Anatole  France  presents a sim\'ad ilar view.\
\fi141
\f5\fs12 I \f7\fs20 3\'b7 Beauty can be defined in two ways: \f5 in \f7 its relationship to his\'ad tory and to nature. In both relationships the semblance, the prob\'ad lematic element in the beautiful, manifests itself. (Let us indicate the first relationship briefly. On the basis of its \f4\i historical \f7\i0 existence, beauty is an appeal to  join those who admired it at an earlier  time. Being moved by beauty is an \f4\i ad plures ire, \f7\i0 as the Romans called dying. According to this definition, the semblance of beauty means that the identical object which admiration is courting cannot  be found \f5 in \f7 the work. This admiration harvests what earlier generations have admired\
\fi5\li2880in it. Words  of Goethe  express here the final conclusion of wisdom: "Everything  that has had a great effect can really no longer be eval\fs4 4 \fs20 uated.")  Beauty in its relationship to \f4\i nature \f7\i0 can  be defined as that which "remains true  to its essential nature  only  when  veiled." The \f4\i correspondances \f7\i0 tell us what is meant by such a veil. We  may  call it, in a somewhat daring  abbreviation, the  "reproducing  aspect"  of the work  of art. The  \f4\i correspondances \f7\i0 constitute  the court  of  judg\'ad ment before which the object of art is found  to be a faithful repro\'ad duction-which, to  be sure, makes it entirely  problematic. If  one attempted  to reproduce  this \f4\i aporia \f7\i0 through  language, one would de\'ad fine beauty as the object  of experience \f5 in \f7 the state  of resemblance. This definition would probably coincide with Valery's formulation: "Beauty may require  the servile imitation  of what  is indefinable in objects." \f5 If \f7 Proust  so readily  returns  to  this subject  (which  in  his work  appears as time recovered),  one cannot  say that  he \fs18 is  \fs20 telling any secrets. It \fs18 is, \fs20 rather, one of the disconcerting features of his tech\'ad nique that he repeatedly and loquaciously builds his reflections around the concept of beauty-n\
\fi11\sl240\slmult1\ql
about  the origin and the intentions of his work  with  a fluency  and an urbanity that would befit a refined amateur. This,  to be sure, has its counterpart  in Bergson. The  following passage in which  the phi\'ad losopher indicates all the things that may be expected from  a visual actualization of  the  uninterrupted  stream  of  becoming  has a  flavor reminiscent  of  Proust.  "We   can  let  our  day-to-day   existence  be permeated with  such a visualization and thus, thanks \fs18 to  \fs20 philosophy, enjoy a satisfaction similar to that of art;  but this satisfaction would be more  frequent,  more  regular, and  more  easily accessible to  or dinary  mortals/'  Bergson  sees within  reach  what  Valery's   better, Goethean  understanding  visualizes as the uhere" in which the  inade\'ad quate becomes an actuality.,.\
\fi289\qj
\fs18 14. \fs20 In the mystical "Colloquy of Monos and Una," Poe has, so to speak, inserted  the  empty  time sequence, to  which  the  man in  the mood of "spleen)' is abandoned, into the \f4\i duree, \f7\i0 and he seems to re\'ad gard it as bliss that he is now rid of its horrors. It is a "sixth sense" acquired by the departed which takes the form of an ability to derive harmony  even from  \fs18 the  \fs20 empty  passage of  time. To  be sure,  it  \fs18 is \fs20 quite  easily disrupted  by  the  rhythm  of  the  second-hand.  "There seemed to have sprung up in the brain \f4\i that \f7\i0 of which no words could\
\fi140533\sl-216\slmult1\li3140\ql
\bullet  "... \f4\i in dem das Unzuliingliche Ereignis wird."  \f7\i0\fs18 An  allusion  to  the\
\li2880Chorus Mysticus that  \fs20 ends \fs18 Goethe\bullet s \f4\i\fs20 Faust) \f7\i0 Part \fs18 Two.-Tran5.\
\
\fi11\sl240\slmult1\li2640\qj
\fs20 convey to the merely human intelligence even an indistinct concep\'ad tion. Let me term it a mental pendulous pulsation. It was the moral embodiment of man's abstract idea of \f4\i Time. \f7\i0 By the absolute equal\'ad ization of this movement-or of such as this-had  the cycles of the firmamental orbs themselves been adjusted. \f5 By \f7 its aid 1 measured the irregularities of the clock upon the mantel, and of the watches of the attendants. Their  tickings came sonorously to my ears. The  slightest deviation from  the true proportion \bullet .. affected me just as violations of abstract truth  are wont, on earth, to affect the moral sense."\
\fi140533\sl-288\slmult1\li2920\ql
r \f4\i\fs28 s. \f7\i0\fs20 The  deterioration  of experience manifests itself in  Proust  \f5 in\
\sl-192\slmult1\li2640\qj
\f7 the co plete\
\fi5\sl240\slmult1\li2620more ingenious or more loyal than the way in which he nonchalantly and constantly  strives to tell the reader:  Redemption  is my  private show.\
\fi294
\fs18 16. \fs20 The  moment of such a success is itself marked as something unique. It is the basis of the structural design of Proust's works. Each situation  in which  the  chronicler  is touched  by  the  breath  of  lost time is thereby  rendered  incomparable and  removed  from  the  se\f5\fs4 4 \f7\fs20 quence of the days.\
\fi289
17. This  endowment  is a wellspring of  poetry. Wherever  a  hu\'ad man being, an animal, or  an inanimate object  thus endowed  by the poet lifts up its  eyes, it  draws  him into  the  distance. The  gaze of nature  thus  awakened  dreams and  pulls  the  poet  after  its  dream. Words,  too, can have an aura of their own. This is how Karl Kraus described \fs18 it: \fs20 "The  closer the look one takes at a word,  the greater the distance from  which it looks back/'\
\fi294\sl-216\slmult1
\fs16 18. \fs20 It is not impossible that this entry was occasioned by a patho\'ad genic shock. The  form  which  relates it  to  Baudelaire's work  is all the more revealing.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\fi140533\sl240\slmult1\li2980\qc
\f4\i\fs16 zoo\
\li3200\ql
\f5\i0\fs52 +\
\
\f4\i\fs36 'Jhe  Jmage  of  ProusL\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\li3140\f5\i0\fs16 I\
\
\fi294\sl216\slmult1\li2860\qj
\f7\fs22 The  thirteen volumes of Marcel Proust's \f4\i\fs24 A Ia Recherche  \fs22 du \fs24 temps perdu \f7\i0\fs22 are the result of an unconstruable synthesis in which the absorption \f4\i of  \f7\i0 a mystic, the art of a prose writer, the verve of a satirist, the erudition of a scholar, and  the self-consciousness of a monomaniac have combined in an autobiographical work. It has rightly  been said that aU great works  of literature found  a genre or dissolve one-that they are, in other words, special cases. Among these cases this is one of the most unfathomable. From its structure, which is fiction, autobiography, and commentary in one, to the syntax of endless sentences (the  Nile of language,\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1\ql
which here overflows and fructifies the regions of truth),  every\'ad\
\li2880thing transcends the norm. The  first revealing observation that\
\sl216\slmult1
strikes one is that this great special case of literature at the same rime constitutes its greatest achievement of recent decades. The conditions under which it was created were extremely unhealthy:' an unusual malady, extraordinary wealth, and an abnormal dis\'ad position. This is not a model life in every respect, but everything about it is exemplary. The  outstanding literary  achievement of our time is assigned a place in the heart of the impossible, at the\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li3280\f4\i\fs12 201\
\fi5\li2620\qj
\f7\i0\fs20 center-and also at the point of indifference-of all dangers, and it marks this great realization of a "lifework" as the last for a long time. The  image of Proust  is the highest  physiognomic  expres\'ad sion \'b7which the irresistibly  growing  discrepancy  between  litera\'ad ture and life was able to assume. This is the lesson which  justifies the attempt  to evoke this image.\
\fi300\sl-240\slmult1
We  kno'v that in his work Proust did not describe a life as it actually  was, but  a life as it  was remembered  by  the  one who\
\fi5\sl240\slmult1
had lived it. And yet even this statement is imprecise and far too crude. For the important  thing for the remembering author  is not what he experienced, but the weaving of his memory, the Penel\'ad ope work of recollection. Or should one call it, rather, a Penelope work  of forgetting?  Is not the\'b7 involuntary  recollection,  Proust's \f4\i memoire involontaire' \f7\i0 much  closer  to  forgetting   than  what  is usually called memory? And is not this work of spontaneous rec\'ad ollection, in which  remembrance is the woof and forgetting  the warf, a counterpart to Penelope's work  rather  than its likeness? For here the day unravels what the night was woven. When  we awake each morning, we hold in our  hands, usually weakly  and loosely, but a few fringes of the tapestry  of lived life, as loomed for us by forgetting.  However, with our purposeful activity  and,\
even more,  our  purposive remembering  each  day  unravels  the web and the ornaments of forgetting.  This is why Proust  finally turned  his days into nights, devoting all his hours to undisturbed work  in  his darkened  room  with  artificial illumination, so  that none of those intricate  arabesques might escape him.\
\fi294
The  Latin word \f4\i textum \f7\i0 means "web., No  one's text is more tightly  woven than Marcel Proust's; to him nothing was tight  or durable  enough.  From  his publisher  Gallimard  we  know   that Proust's  proofreading  habits were the despair of the  typesetters. The  galleys always went back covered with  marginal notes, hut not a single misprint had been corrected;  all available space had been used for  fresh  text. Thus  the  laws of  remembrance  were\
\fi5\sl-240\slmult1
operative even within  the confines of  the  work.  For  an experi\'ad enced event is finite-at any  rate, confined to  one sphere  of ex\'ad perience; a remembered event is infinite, because it is only a key\
\fi140533\li2600to everything  that  happened  before it and after  it. There  is yet\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li2980\ql
\f4\i\fs12 202\
\
\li3280\fs18 The Image of Proust\
\
\fi5\li2900\qj
\f7\i0\fs20 another sense in which  memory  issues strict weaving  regulation . Only the \f4\i\fs24 actus purus \f7\i0\fs20 of recollection itself,  not  the  author  or  the plot, constitutes the  unity  of the text. One  may even say that  the intermittence of author and  plot  is only  the  reverse  of  the  con\'ad\
\fi140533\ql
tinuum of memory, the  pattern  on the  back  side of  the tapestry. This  is what  Proust meant,  and  this  is  how  he  must  be  under\'ad stood,  when  he said that  he would  prefer to see his entire  work printed   in  one  volume  in  two  columns and  without any  para graphs.\
\fi294\sl264\slmult1\li2920\qj
What was it  that  Proust sought  so frenetically? What was at the  bottom of  these  infinite  efforts?   Can  we  say  that  all  lives, works,  and deeds that  matter  were  never  anything but  the undis\'ad turbed   unfolding of  the  most  ban  l,\
\fi140533\sl-216\slmult1
mental,  weakest  hour  in  the  life of  the  one  to  whom  they  per\'ad\
\sl240\slmult1\li2900tain?  When Proust in  a well-known passage  described  the  hour that  was most \fs24 his \fs20 own,  he did it in such  a \'b7way that  everyone can find it in his own  existence.  We  might  almost  call it an everyday hour;  it  comes  with   the  night,  a  lost  twittering of  birds,  or  a\
\sl264\slmult1
breath   drawn at  the  sill  of  an  open  \\Vindow.  And   there  is  no telling  what  encounters would  be in store  for  us if we were  less inclined  to give in to sleep. Proust did  not  give in to sleep. And yet-or,  rather, precisely  for  this reason-Jean Cocteau  was  able to say  in  a  beautiful essay  that  the  intona  ion\
\fi34\sl240\slmult1\li2880obeyed  the laws of night  and honey.  By submitting to these laws he  conquered  the  hopeless  sadness  within him   (what   he  once called  \f4\i "l'imperfection  incurable dans l'essence  meme du  pre\'ad sent" \f7\i0 \bullet ), and from  the  honeycombs of  memory  he built  a house far  the  swarm  of  his thoughts. Cocteau recognized what  really should  have been  the  major  concern of  all readers  of Proust and yet  has served  no  one  as the  pivo al\
\fi11\li2900his .affection.   He   recognized  Proust's  blind,  senseless,  frenzied quest  for  happiness. It shone from  his eyes; they  were  not  happy, but  in  them  there  lay  fortune as it  lies in  gambling  or  in  love. Nor  is it hard  to say  why  this paralyzing, explosive  \fs22 will \fs20 to  hap\'ad piness  which   pervades   Proust's writings is  so  seldom  compre-\
\
\fi140533\sl-192\slmult1\li3140\ql
\fs18 \bullet  "\bullet \bullet \bullet  the incurable imperfection in the very  essence of the present  mo\'ad\
\sl-168\slmult1\li2880\qj
ment."\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li3260\ql
\f4\i\fs12 203\
\li2640\qj
\f7\i0\fs20 hended  by  hls readers. In  many  places Proust  himself made  it easy for them to view this \f4\i oeuvre, \f7\i0 too, from the time-tested, comfortable  perspective of resignation, heroism, asceticism. After all, nothing makes more sense to the model pupils of life than the notion that a great achievement is the fruit of toil, misery, and disappointment. The  idea that  happiness could  have a share  in beauty would be too much of a good thing, something that  their \f4\i ressentiment \f7\i0 would  never get over.\
\sl-216\slmult1\li2940\ql
There  is a dual will to happiness, a dialectics of happiness: a\
\fi11\sl240\slmult1\li2640hymnic and an elegiac form. The  one is the unheard-of,  the un\'b7 precedented,  the height of blissthe other, the eternal repetition, the  eternal  restoration  of  the  original, the  first  happiness. It  is this elegiac idea  of  happiness-it   could  also be  called  Eleatic\'ad which for Proust  transforms existence into a preserve of memory. To  it  he sacrificed in his life friends and  companionship, in  hls works  plot,  unity  of  characters,  the  flow of  the  narration,  the play of the imagination. Max Unold,  one of  Proust's  more  dis\'ad cerning   readrrs,   fastened  on  the  "boredom"  thus  created   in Proust's  writings  and  likened  it  to  "pointless  stories.,  "Proust managed to make the pointless story interesting. He says: 'Imag\'ad ine, dear  reader,  yesterday  I  was dunking  a  cookie  in  \f5\fs22 my \f7\fs20 tea when it occurred  to me that as a child I spent some time in the country.' For  this he uses eighty  pages, and  it is so fascinating that you think you are no longer the listener but the daydreamer himself." In such stories-"all ordinary  dreams turn into pointless stories as soon as one tells them to someone"-Unold has discov\'ad ered  the  bridge  to  the  dream.  No  synthetic   interpretation of Proust  can  disregard  it. Enough  inconspicuous  gates  lead  into it-Proust's frenetically  studying  resemblances,  his impassioned cult of similarity. The  true signs of its hegemony do not become obvious where  he suddenly  and startlingly  uncovers  similarities in actions, physiognomies, or speech mannerisms. The  similarity of one thing to another which we are used to, which occupies us in a wakeful state, reflects only vaguely the  deeper  resemblance of  the  dream  world  in  which  everything  that  happens ppears not in identical but in similar guise, opaquely similar one  to an\'ad other. Children know a symbol of this world: the stocking  which\
\
\fi140533\li3260\f4\i The  Image of Prou.rt\
\fi5\li2900\f7\i0\fs22 has the structure  of  this dream world  when, rolled up  in  the laundry hamper, it is a ''bag, and a "present" at the same time. And just as children do not tire of quickly changing the bag and its contents into a third thing-namely,  a stocking-Proust could not get his \fs20 fill \fs22 of emptying \fs20 the \fs22 dummy, his self, \fs20 at \fs22 one stroke in order to keep garnering that third thing, the image which satis\'ad fied \fs20 his \fs22 curiosity-indeed,  assuaged \fs20 his \fs22 homesickness. \fs20 He  \fs22 lay on \fs20 his \fs22 bed racked with. homesickness, homesick for  the world  dis\'ad torted in the state of resemblance, a world in which the true sur\'ad realist face of existence breaks through. To  this world  belongs what happens in Proust, and the deliberate and fastidious way in which it appears. It  \fs20 is  \fs22 never isolated, rhetoricaJ, or  visionary; carefully heralded and securely supported, it bears a fragile, pre\'ad cious reality: the image. \fs24 It \fs22 detaches itself from the structure  of Proust's sentences as that summer day at Balbec-old, immemorial, mummified-emerged  from  the  lace curtains  under  Fran oise's hands.\
\
\
\fi140533\li3180\f5\fs16 II\
\
\f7\fs22 We do not always proclaim oudly\
\sl-240\slmult1\li2900we have to say. Nor do we always privately share it with those tlosest to us, our intimate friends, those who have been most de\'ad\
\qj
votedly ready to receive our confession. \f5 If \f7 it is true that not only people but also ages have such a chaste-that is, such a devious and frivolous-way  of communicating what is most their own to\
\fi5\sl216\slmult1\ql
a passing acquaintance, then thnineteenth century did not re\'ad veal itself to Zola or Anatole France, but to the young Proust, the insignificant snob, the  playboy and  socialite who snatched  in passing the most astounding confidences from a declining age as from  another, bone-weary Swann. It  took Proust to  make the nineteenth century ripe for memoirs. What before him had been a period devoid of tension now became a field of force in which later writers aroused multifarious currents. Nor  is it  accidental that the two most significant works of this kind were written  by authors who  were  personally close to  Proust  as admirers and friends:  the  memoirs of  Princess Clermont-Tonnerre  and  the\
\
\fi140533\sl240\slmult1\li3280\f4\i\fs12 .30)\
\
\li3040\fs20 llluminatiom\
\fi17\sl216\slmult1\li2640\qj
\f7\i0\fs22 autobiographical work of Leon Daudet; the first volumes of both works were published recently. An eminently Proustian inspira\'ad tion led Leon Daudet, whose political folly is too gross and too obrose to do much harm to his admirable talent, to tum  his life into a \f5\fs20 city. \f4\i\fs24 Paris vecu, \f7\i0\fs22 the projection of a biography onto the city map, in more than one place is touched by the shadows of Proustian characters. And the very  title of Princess Clermont\'ad Tonnerre's book, \f4\i\fs24 Au Temps des equipages, \f7\i0\fs22 would have been un\'ad thinkable prior to Proust. This book is the echo which softly answers Proust's  ambiguous, loving, challenging call from  the Faubourg Saint Germain.\
\li2620\qc
ance is shot through with direct and indirect references to Proust in its tenor and its characters, which include him and some of his favorite objects of study from the Ritz. There \f5\fs20 is \f7\fs22 no denying, of course, tha:t this puts us in a very aristocratic milieu, and, with figures like Robert de Montesquiou, whom Princess Clennont\'ad Tonnerre  depicts masterfully, in a very special one at that. But this is true of Proust as well, and in his writings Montesquiou has a counterpart. All this would not be worth discussing, especially since the question of models would be secondary and unimpor\'ad tant for Germany, if German criticism were not so fond of tak\'ad ing the easy way out. Above all, it could not resist the oppor\'ad tunity to descend to the level of the lending-library crowd. Hack critics were tempted to draw conclusions about the author from the snobbish milieu of his writings, to characterize Proust's works as an internal affair of the French, a literary supplement to the \f4\i\fs20 Almanaoh de Gotha. \f7\i0\fs22 It is obvious that the problems of Prouses characters are those of a satiated society. But there is not one which would be identical with those of the author, which a.re subversive. To reduce this to a formula, it was to be Proust's aim to design the entire inner structure of society as a physiology of chatter. In the treasury of its prejudices and maxims there is not one that is not annihilated by a dangerous comic element. Pierre\'ad Quint  was the first to draw attention to it. "When  humorous works are mentioned," he wrote, "one usually thinks of short, amusing books in  illustrated  jackets. One  forgets  about  \f4\i\fs24 Don\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1\li2640\qj
\fs20 Quixote, Pantagruel, \f7\i0\fs22 and \f4\i\fs20 Gil Blas-fat, \f7\i0\fs22 ungainly tomes in small\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li3020\ql
\f4\i\fs12 206\
\fi11\li2880\qj
\f7\i0\fs20 print." These comparisons, of course, do not do full justice to the explosive power of Proust's critique of society. His style is com\'ad edy,  not  humor;  his laughter  does  not  toss  the  world  up  but flings it down-at the risk that it \fs22 will \fs20 be smashed to pieces, which will then make him burst into tears. And unity of family and personality, of sexual morality and professional honor, are indeed smashed to bits. The  pretensions of the bourgeoisie are shattered by laughter.  Their  return  and reassimilation by  the  aristocracy is the sociological theme of the work.\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1\li3200\ql
Proust  did  not  tire  of  the training  which  moving in  aristo\
\fi28\sl240\slmult1\li2860\qc
cratic c:ircles required. Assiduously and without  much constraint, he conditioned  his personality, making it as impenetrable  and re\'ad sourceful, as submissive and difficult, as it had to be for  the sake of  his mission. Later  on  this mystification  and  ceremoniousness became so much part of him that his letters sometimes constitute whole  systems of  parentheses, and  not  just in  the  grammatical sense-letters  which   despite  their   infinitely   ingenious,  flexible composition  occasionally call to  mind  the  specimen  of  a letter writer's  handbook: "My  dear Madam, I just noticed that I forgot my cane at your  house yesterday; please be good enough  to give it to the bearer of this letter. P.S. Kindly  pardon  me for  disturb\'ad ing you; I  just found  my cane.'' Proust  was most resourceful  in creating  complications.  Once,  late  at  night,  he  dropped  in  on Princess Clermont-Tonnerre and made his staying  dependent  on someone  bringing  him  his medicine from  his house. He  sent  a valet for it, giving him a lengthy description of the neighborhood and of the house. Finally he said: "You  cannot  miss it. It  is the only  window  on the Boulevard Haussmann in which  there  still is a light  burning!"  Everything  but  the  house number! Anyone who has tried to get the address of a brothel in a strange city and has received the most long-winded directions, everything  but the name of the street  and the house number,  will understand  what is meant  here and what  the connection  is with  Proust's  love  of ceremony, his admiration of the Due de Saint-Simon, and, last but not least, his intransigent  French spirit. Is it not  the quintessence of experience to find out  how very  difficult it is to learn many things which  apparently  could be told in very  few  words?  It is\
\
\fi140533\li3260\ql
\f4\i\fs12 207\
\
\fi5\li2620\qj
\f7\i0\fs20 simply that such words are part of a language established along lines of caste and class and unintelligible to outsiders. No wonder that  the secret language of  the salons excited  Proust.  When  he later embarked  on his merciless depiction  of the  \f4\i\fs22 petit  clan, \f7\i0\fs20 the Courvoisiers, the "esprit d'Oriane," he had through  his association with  the Bibescos become conversant with  the improvisations of a code language to which we too have recently  been introduced.\
\fi0
In  his years of life in the salons Proust  developed  not  only the  vice of flattery  to an eminent-one is tempted  to  say, to  a theological-degree, but the vice of curiosity  as well. We  detect in him the reflection of the laughter which like a flash fire curls the  lips of  the  Foolish Virgins  represented  on  the  intrados  of many of the cathedrals which Proust loved. It is the smile of curiosity.  Was it curiosity that made him such a great  parodist? \f5\fs22 If \f7\fs20 so, we would  know  how  to evaluate the  term  "parodist'' in this context. Not  very  highly. For  though  it does  justice to  his abysmal malice, it skirts the bitterness, savagery, and grimness of the magnificent pieces which  he wrote  in the sty1e of Balzac, Flaubert, Sainte-Beuve, Henri de Regnier, the Goncourts, Miche\'ad let, Renan, and his favorite Saint-Simon, and which are collected in the volume \f4\i\fs22 Pastiches et \fs24 melanges. \f7\i0\fs20 The  mimicry  of a man of curiosity is the brilliant device of this series, as it is also a feature of  his entire  creativity  in which  his passion for  vegetative  life cannot  be taken seriously enough. Ortega  y Gasset was the first\
\fi140533\li2640to draw  attention  to the vegetative existence of Proust's  charac\'ad ters, which are planted so firmly in their social habitat, influenced by  the position  of  the sun of  aristocratic  favor, stirred  by  the wind that blows from Guermantes or Meseglise, and inextricably intertwined  in the thicket  of their fate. This \f5 is \f7 the environment that gave rise to the poet's mimicry. Proust's most accurate, most convincing insights fasten on their objects as insects fasten on leaves, blossoms, branches, betraying  nothing  of  their  existence until a leap, a beating of wings, a vault, show the startled observer that some incalculable individual life has imperceptibly  crept  into an alien world. The  true reader of Proust is constantly  jarred by small shocks. In the parodies he finds again, in the guise of a play with "styles,, what affected him in an altogether  different  way\
\fi28\li2880as this spirit's  struggle  for  survival  under  the  leafy  canopy  of society. At this point we must say something about the close and fructifying interpenetration of these two vices, curiosity and flat\'ad tery.  There   is a  revealing  passage in  the  writings  of  Princess Clennont-Tonnerre. "And  finally we  cannot  suppress  the  fact that  Proust  became enraptured  with  the study  of domestic  ser\'ad vants-whether it  be that  an element which  he encountered  no\'ad where else intrigued  his investigative \'b7faculties or  that  he envied servants  their  greater  opportunities  for  observing  the  intimate details of  things that  aroused  his interest. In  any case, domestic servants  in  their  various embodiments  and  types  were  his pas\'ad sion." In the exotic shadings of a Jupien, a Monsieur Aime, a Celestine Albalat, their .ranks extend from Fran oise,\
\fi17\li2860the  coarse,  angular  features  of  St.  Martha   that  seems  to   be straight  out  of a Book of Hours,  to  those grooms and \f4\i chasseurs \f7\i0 who are paid for loafing rather than working. And perhaps the greatest  concentration of this connoisseur of ceremonies was re\'ad served for the depiction of these lower ranks. Who  can tell how much  servant  curiosity  became  part  of  Proust's  flattery,  how much servant flattery became mixed with his curiosity, and where this artful  copy  of the role of the servant  on the heights of the social scale had its limits? Proust  presented  such a copy,  and  he could  not  help  doing  so, for,  as he  once  admitted,  \f4\i "voir" \f7\i0 and \f4\i "desirer imiter" \f7\i0 were  one and the same thing  to  him. This  atti\'ad tude, which  was both  sovereign  and  obsequious, has been  pre\'ad served  by Maurice  Barres in the most apposite  words  that  have ever been written  about Proust: \f4\i "Un poete persan dans une loge\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1
de portiere." \f5\i0\fs30 *\
\sl-216\slmult1\li3160\ql
\f7\fs20 There  was something  of  the  detective  in  Proust's  curiosity.\
\sl240\slmult1\li2860\qj
The  upper ten thousand were to him a clan of criminals, a band of conspirators beyond compare: the Camorra of consumers. It excludes from its world everything  that has a part in production, or at least demands that this part be gracefully  and bashfully con\'ad cealed behind the kind of manner that is sported  by the polished professionals  of   consumption.  Proust's    analysis  of   snobbery,\
\
\li3120\ql
\fs16 \bullet  \f4\i i'\f7\i0\fs18 A Persian poet in a porter\bullet s lodge."\
\
\li3240\f9\i\fs12 20\
\fi51\li2580\qj
\f7\i0\fs20 which is far more important  than his apotheosis of art, constitutes the  apogee  of  his criticism  of society.  For  the  attitude  of  the snob is nothing  but the consistent, organized, steely view of life from  the chemically pure standpoint  of the consumer.  And  be\'ad cause even the remotest as well as the most primitive memory of nature's  productive  forces was to  be banished from  this satanic magic world, Proust found a perverted relationship more service\'ad able than a normal one even in love. But the  pure consumer  is the pure  exploiter-logically and theoretically-and in Proust  he is that  in the full concreteness of  his actual  historical existence. He is concrete  because he is impenetrable and elusive. Proust de\'ad scribes a class which is everywhere  pledged to camouflage its material basis and for  this very reason is attached  to a feudalism which  has no intrinsic economic significance but is all the more serviceable as a mask of the upper middle class. This disillusioned, merciless deglamorizer of the ego, of love, of morals-for this is how  Proust  liked to view  himself-turns his whole  limitless art into a veil for  this one most vital mystery  of his class: the eco\'ad nomic aspect. He  did not mean to do it a service. Here  speaks Marcel  Proust,  the hardness of his work,  the intransigence  of  a man who is ahead of his class. \\Vhat  he accomplishes he accom\'ad plishes as its master. And much of the greatness of this work will remain inaccessible or  undiscovered\'b7 until  this class has revealed its most pronounced  features in the .final struggle.\
\
\
\fi140533\li2840\qc
\f5\fs16 III\
\
\fi306\li2580\qj
\f7\fs20 In  the  last century   there  was an  inn  by  the  name of  "Au Temps Perdu" at Grenoble; I do not know\'b7whether  it still exists. In Proust,  too, we are guests who enter  through  a door  under\'ad neath a suspended sign that sways in the  breeze, a door  behind which  eternity  and  rapture  await  us. Fernandez  rightly  distin\'ad guished between  a \f4\i theme de l'eternite \f7\i0 and a \f4\i theme du temps \f7\i0 in Proust. But  his eternity  is by  no means a platonic or  a utopian one; it is rapturous. Therefore,  if "time reveals a new and hitherto unknown  kind of eternity  to anyone who becomes engrossed in its passing," this certainly  does not  enable an individual  to  ap-\
\
\fi140533\li2940\qc
\f4\i\fs12 210\
\fi45\li2860\f7\i0\fs20 proach  "the  higher  regions which  a  Plato  or  Spinoza  reached with one beat of the wings." It is true that in Proust we find rudi\'ad ments of an enduring idealism, but it would be a mistake to make these the basis of an interpretation, as Benoist-Mechin  has done most glaringly. The  eternity  which  Proust  opens to view is con\'ad voluted  time, not boundless time. His true  interest  is in the  pas\'ad sage  of  time  in  its  most  real-that  is, space-bound-fonn, and this passage nowhere  holds sway  more  openly  than  in  remem\'ad brance within  and aging without. To  observe the interaction  of aging  and  remembering   means  to   penetrate   to  the   heart   of Proust's world,  to the universe of convolution.  It is the world in a state of resemblances, the domain of the  \f4\i correspondances; \f7\i0 the Romanticists were  the first to comprehend  them and Baudelaire embraced them most fervently, but Proust was the only one who managed to reveal them in our lived life. This is the work of the \f4\i memoire involontaire, \f7\i0 the  rejuvenating  force  which  is a  match for  the inexorable process of aging. When  the past is reflected in the  dewy  fresh "instant,"  a painful  shock  of  rejuvenation  pulls it together  once more as irresistibly as the Guermantes  way  and Swann's  way  become  intertwined  for  Proust  when, in the  thir\'ad teenth  volume,  he  roams about  the  Combray  area  for  the  last time and discovers the intertwining  of  the  roads. In a trice  the landscape jumps about like a child. \f4\i "Ah!que le monde est grand\
\fi140533\sl-288\slmult1\li2880\qj
\fs36 a \fs20 la clarte des lampes! Aux yeux du souvenir que le monde est\
\sl-216\slmult1
petit!" \f7\i0 \bullet  Proust has brought  off the tremendous feat of letting the\
whole world  age by a lifetime in an instant. But  this very  con\'ad\
\fi11\sl240\slmult1
centration in which things that normally  just fade and slumber consume  themselves in  a flash is called  rejuvenation.  \f4\i\fs24 A \fs20 la Re\'ad cherche du temps perdu is \f7\i0 the constant  attempt  to charge an en\'ad tire lifetime with the utmost awareness. Proust's method is ac\'ad tualization, not reflection. He is filled with  the insight that  none of us has time to live the true dramas of the life that we are des\'ad tined for. This is what  ages us-this and  nothing  else. The  wrin\'ad kles and  creases on  our  faces are  the  registration  of  the  great\
\
\fi249\sl192\slmult1\ql
\bullet  "Oh, how large the \fs18 world \fs20 is in the brightness of the lamps. How small the world is in the eyes of \fs18 recollection.,\
\
\fi140533\sl240\slmult1\li3260\f4\i\fs12 211\
\
\fi5\sl-240\slmult1\li2660\f7\i0\fs20 passions, vices, insights that  called on  us; but  we,  the  masters, were not home.\
\fi368\sl240\slmult1\li2580Since the spiritual exercises of Loyola  there  has hardly  been a  more  radical  attempt  at  self-absorption.  Proust's,  too,  has as its center  a loneliness which pulls the world down into its vortex with the force of a maelstrom. And the overloud  and inconceiv\'ad ably hollow chatter  which  comes roaring  out  of Proust's  novels is the sound of society plunging down into the abyss of this lone\'ad liness. This  is the location  of Proust's  invectives against friend\'ad ship. It was a matter  of perceiving the silence at the  bottom  of this  crater,   whose  eyes  are  the  quietest  and  most  absorbing. Something  that  is manifested irritatingly   and  capriciously  \f5\fs22 in \f7\fs20 so many anecdotes is the combination of an unparalleled intensity of conversation  with  an unsurpassable aloofness from  his partner. There  has never  been anyone  else with  Proust's  ability  to show us things; Proust's  pointing finger is unequaled. But there is an\'ad other  gesture in amicable togetherness, in conversation:  physical contact.  To  no one is this gesture more alien than to Proust. He cannot touch his reader either; he could not do so for anything  in the world. \f5 If \f7 one wanted to group literature  around  these poles, dividing it into the directive and the touching  kind, the core  of the former  would  be the work  of Proust,  the core of the latter, the work of Peguy. 'This is basically what Fernandez has formu\'ad lated so well: "Depth,  or, rather, intensity, is always on his side, never on that of his partner.'' This is demonstrated  brilliantly and with  a touch  of cynicism in Proust's  literary  criticism, the most significant document  of which  is an essay that  came into  being on the high level of his fame and the low level of his deathbed: "A  Propos  de Baudelaire.u The  essay is Jesuitic  in its  acquies\'ad cence in his own maladies, immoderate in the garrulousness of a man  who  is resting,  frightening  in  the  indifference  of  a  man marked by death who wants to speak out  once more, no matter on what subject. What  inspired Proust  here in the face of death also shaped  him in  his intercourse  with  his contemporaries:  so spasmodic  and  harsh  an  alternation  of  sarcasm and  tenderness that irs recipients  threatened  to break  down  in exhaustion.\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1\li2900The  provocative,  unsteady  quality  of  the  man  affects  even\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li2960\f4\i\fs12 212\
\
\li3280\fs20 The  Image of Pr()Ust\
\li2920\qj
\f7\i0 the reader of his works. Suffice it to recall the endless succession of \f4\i\fs22 "soit que \f7\i0 .. \f4\i :\f7\i0 ," \fs20 by means of which  an action is shown in an exhaustive, depressing way  in the light  of the countless motives upon which it may have been based. And yet these paratactic sequences reveal the  point  at which  weakness and genius coin\'ad cide in  Proust:  the  intellectual  renunciation,   the  tested  skepti\'ad cism with which he approached things. After the self-satisfied inwardness of Romanticism Proust came along, determined, as Jacques  Riviere  puts  it,  not  to  give  the  least  credence  to  the \f4\i\fs22 "Sirenes interieures" \f7\i0\fs20 "Proust  approaches experience without  the slighest metaphysical interest, without the slightest penchant for construction; without  the slightest tendency  to console." Nothing is truer  than that. And  thus the basic feature  of this work,  too, which Jlroust kept proclaiming as being planned, is anything  but the result of construction. Hut it is as planned as the lines on the palm of our  hand or  the arrangement  of the stamen in a calyx. Completely  worn  out,  Proust,  that  aged child, fell back  on  the bosom of nature-not to drink from it, but to dream to its heart\'ad beat. One  must picture  him in this state  of  weakness to  under\'ad stand  how felicitously  Jacques  Riviere interpreted  the  weakness when  he wrote:  "Marcel  Proust  died  of  the  same inexperience which  permitted  him to  write  his works. He  died of ignorance of the world and because he did not know how to change the conditions  of  his life  which \'b7had begun  to  crush  him. He  died because he did not know  how to make a fire or open a window." And, to be sure, of his psychogenic  asthma.\
\sl-240\slmult1\li3260\ql
The doctors  were powerless in the face of this malady; not so\
\fi5\sl240\slmult1\li2960\qj
the writer,  who  very  systematicaHy placed it  in his service. To begin with  the  most external aspect, he was a perfect  stage di\'ad rector  of  his sickness. For  months  he connected,  with  devastat\'ad ing irony, the image of an admirer who had sent him flowers with their  odor,  which  he found  unbearable.  Depending  on  the  ups and downs  of  his malady  he alarmed  his friends,  who  dreaded and longed for the moment when the writer  would suddenly ap\'ad pear in their drawing  rooms long after midnight-brise \f4\i\fs22 de fatigue\
\fi140533\sl-216\slmult1
\f7\i0\fs20 and for  just five minutes, as he said-only to stay till the gray of\
\sl-240\slmult1
dawn, too  tired  to get  out  of his chair or  interrupt his conver-\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li3340\ql
\f4\i\fs12 21J\
\
\li2960\fs20 llluminationJ\
\li2600\qj
\f7\i0\fs22 sation. Even as a writer of letters he extracted the most singular effects from his malady. "The wheezing of my breath is drown\'ad ing out  the sounds of my  pen and of  a  bath which is being drawn on the floor below." But that is not all, nor is it the fact that his sickness removed him from fashionable living. This asthma became part of his art-if  indeed his art did not create it. Proust's syntax rhythmically  and step  by  step  reproduces his fear of suffocating. And his ironic, philosophical, di actic\
\fi5\sl-240\slmult1
tions invariably are the deep breath with which he shakes off the weight of memories. On a larger scale, however, the threatening, suffocating crisis was death, which he was constantly aware of,\
\fi140533
most of all while he was writing. This is how death confronted\
Proust, and long before his malady assumed critical dimensions\'ad\
\fi17\sl216\slmult1\li2580not as a hypochondriacal whim, but as a \f4\i\fs20 "realite nouvelle/' \f7\i0\fs22 that new reality whose reflections on things and people are the marks of aging. A physiology of style would take us into the innermost core of this creativeness. No  one who knows with what great tenacity memories are preserved by the sense of smell, and smells not at all in the memory, will be able to call Proust's sensitivity to smells accidental. To  be sure, most memories that we search for come to us as -visual images. Even the free-floating forms of the \f4\i\fs20 memoire involontaire \f7\i0\fs22 are still in large part isolated, though enigmatically present, visual images. For this very reason, anyone who wishes to surrender knowingly to the innermost overtones in this work tnust place himself in a special stratum-the bottom\'ad most-of   this involuntary memory, one in which the  materials of memory no longer appear singly, as images, but tell us about a whole, amorphously and formlessly, indefinitely and weightily, in the same way as the weight of his net tells a fisherman about his catch. Smell-that  is the sense of weight of someone who casts his nets into the sea of the \f4\i temps \fs20 perdu. \f7\i0\fs22 And his sentences are the entire muscular activity of the intelligible body; they  con\'ad tain the whole enormous effort to raise this catch.\
\fi192\li2600For the rest, the closeness of the symbiosis between this par\'ad ticular creativity and this particular malady is demonstrated most clearly by the fact that in Proust there never was a breakthrough of that  heroic defiance with  which other  creative people have\
\
\fi140533\sl240\slmult1\li2960\ql
\f4\i\fs12 214\
\
\li3220\fs20 The  Image of Proust\
\fi11\li2820\qj
\f7\i0 risen up against their infirmities. And therefore  one can say, from another  point  of view, that  so close a complicity  with  life  and the course of the world  as Proust's would  inevitably have led to ordinary,  indolent  contentment   on  any  basis but  that  of  such great and constant suffering. \fs22 As \fs20 it was, however, this malady was destined to  have its place in the great  work  process assigned to it  by  a furor  devoid  of  desires or  regrets.  For  the second  time there  rose a scaffold like Michelangelo's on which  the artist,  his head  thrown   back,  painted  the  Creation  on  the  ceiling  of  the Sistine Chapel: the sickbed on which  Marcel  Proust  consecrates the countless pages which he covered with his handwriting,  hold\'ad ing them up in the air, to the creation  of his microcosm.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\fi140533\li3160\ql
\f9\i\fs12 21$\
\
\
\
\
\li3220\f4\fs36 1he  Work of  Art\
\
in the Age  of  Jl/(echanical  Reproduction...,\
\
\
\fi17\sl216\slmult1\li3260\fs20 "Our  fine arts were developed, their types  and uses were  estab\'ad lished, in times very different from the present, by men whose power of action upon things was insignificant in comparison with ours. But the amazing growth of our techniques, the adaptability and precision they  have attained, the ideas and habits they  are creating, make \fs22 it \fs20 a certainty that profound changes are impending in the ancient craft  of the Beautiful. In all the arts there  is a physical component which can no longer be considered or treated as it used to be, which cannot remain unaffected by our modern knowledge and power. For the last twenty  years neither matter nor space nor time bas been what it was from time immemorial. We must expect great innovations to transform the entire tech\'ad nique of the arts, thereby  affecting  artistic invention itself and perhaps even bringing about an amazing change in our very no\'ad\
\fi140533\sl-216\slmult1
tion of art." \f7\i0 \bullet \
\sl240\slmult1\li5920\fs18 -Paul \fs20 Valery, \fs12 PIEcEs  Still  L'ART,\
\sl-192\slmult1
\fs18 "La  Conquete  de l'ubiquite,, Paris.\
\
\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li3200\f8 PREFACE\
\fi294\li2880\qj
\f7\fs20 When  Marx undertook  his critique  of  the  capitalistic  mode of  production,  this mode was in  its infancy.  Marx directed  his efforts in such a way as to give them prognostic  value. He went back  to  the  basic conditions  underlying   capitalistic  production and rhrough  his presentation showed what  could be expected  of capitalism in the future. The  result was that  one could expect it not only to exploit the proletariat with increasing intensity, but ultimately  to create conditions which  would  make it possible to abolish capitalism itself.\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1\li3200\ql
The  transformation  of the superstructure, which  takes place\
\
\fi249\sl192\slmult1\li2900\fs18 \bullet  Quoted  from  Paul  Valery,  \f4\i Aesthetics, \f7\i0 "The   Conquest  of  Ubiquity," translated \f5 by \f7 Ralph Manheim, p. \fs16 215. \fs18 Pantheon Books, Bollingen Series, New York, \f5\fs16 r\'a24.\
\
\fi140533\sl240\slmult1\li3280\f4\i\fs12 211\
\fi39\li2620\qj
\f7\i0\fs20 far  more slowly  than  that  of  the  substructure,  has taken  more than half a century  to manifest in all areas of culture  the change in the conditions  of production.  Only  today  can it  be indicated whac form this has taken. Certain prognostic requirements should be met by these statements. However,  theses about the art of the proletariat  after  its assumption of  power  or  about  the  art  of a classless society  would  have less bearing on  these demands  than theses about  the developmental  tendencies  of art  under  present conditions  of production.  Their  dialectic is no less noticeable in the superstructure than in the economy. It  would  therefore  be wrong  to  underestimate  the  value of such  theses as a weapon. They  brush aside a number  of outmoded concepts, such as crea\'ad tivity and genius, eternal value and mystery-concepts  whose uncontrolled  (and at present almost uncontrollable)  application would lead to a processing of data in the Fascist sense. The  con\'ad cepts which are introduced  into the theory of art in what follows differ from the more familiar terms in that they are completely useless for the purposes of Fascism. They  are, on the other  hand, useful for  the formulation  of revolutionary  demands in the poli\'ad tics of art.\
\
\
\
\
\fi306
In principle a work of art has always been reproducible. Man\'ad made artifacts  could  always be imitated  by  men. Replicas were made by pupils in practice of their craft, by masters for diffusing their works, and, finally, by third parties in the pursuit of gain. Mechanical reproduction  of a work of art, however, represents something  new.  Historically,  it  advanced  intermittently and  in leaps at long intervals, but with accelerated intensity. The  Greeks knew only two  procedures of technically  reproducing  works  of art: founding and stamping. Bronzes, terra cottas, and coins were the only  art  works  which  they  could  produce  in quantity.  All others  were  unique and could  not be mechanically  reproduced. With  the woodcut  graphic art became mechanically reproducible for  the  first  time,  long  before  script  became  reproducible   by print.  The   enormous  changes  which  printing,  the  mechanical\
\
\fi140533\li3000\ql
\f4\i\fs12 218\
\fi5\li2920\qj
\f7\i0\fs22 reproduction  of  writing,  has brought  about  in literature  are a familiar story. However, within the phenomenon which we are here examining from the perspective of world  history, print  is merely a special, though particularly important, case. During the Middle Ages engraving and etching were added to the woodcut; at the beginning of the nineteenth century  lithography made its appearance.\
\fi306\sl-240\slmult1
With  lithography the technique of reproduction reached an essentially new stage. This much more direct  process was dis\'ad tinguished by the tracing of the design on a stone rather than its\
\fi140533\sl240\slmult1
incision on a block of wood or \fs20 its \fs22 etching on a copperplate and permitted graphic art for the first time to put \fs20 its \fs22 products on the market, not only in large numbers as hitherto, but also in daily changing forms. Lithography  enabled graphic  art  to  illustrate\
\fi5\li2880\qc
everyday life, and it began to keep pace with printing. But only a few decades after its invention, lithography was surpassed by photography. For the first time in the process of pictorial repro.. duction, photography freed the hand of the most important ar... tistic functions which  henceforth devolved only  upon the  eye looking into a lens. Since the eye perceives more swiftly than the hand can draw, the process of pictorial reproduction was accel\'ad erated so enormously that it could keep pace with speech. A film operator shooting a scene in the studio captures the images at the speed of an actor,s speech. Just as lithography virtually implied the illustrated newspaper, so did  photography  foreshadow the sound film. The  technical reproduction of sound was tackled at the end of the last century. These convergent  endeavors made predictable a situation which Paul Valery pointed up in this sen\'ad tence: "Just as water, gas, and electricity  are brought into  our houses from far off to satisfy our needs \f5\fs20 in \f7\fs22 response to a minimal effort, so we shall be supplied with visual or  auditory  images, which will appear and disappear at a simple movement of  the hand, hardly more than a sign" \f4\i (op. cit., \f7\i0 p. \fs20 226).  \fs22 Around \fs20 1900\
\fi140533\sl-216\slmult1\li2900\qj
\fs22 technical reproduction had reached a standard that not only per\'ad\
\sl-240\slmult1\li2880mitted it to reproduce all transmitted works of art and thus to cause the most profound change in their impact upon the public;\
it also had captured a place of its own among the artistic proc-\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li3260\ql
\f4\i\fs12 219\
\fi11\li2680\qj
\f7\i0\fs20 esses. For  the study  of  this standard  nothing  is more  revealing than the nature of the repercussions that these two different manifestations-the reproduction  of works  of art and the  art  of the film-have had on art in its traditional form.\
\
\
\fi140533\li2960\ql
\f5\fs16 II\
\
\fi306\li2660\qj
\f7\fs20 Even the most perfect  reproduction of a work  of art is lack\'ad ing in one element: its presence in time and space, its unique existence at the place where it happens to be. This  unique  exis\'ad tence of the work of art determined the history to which it was subject  throughout the  time  of its  existence. This  includes  the changes which  \fs22 it  \fs20 may  have suffered  in  physical condition  over the  years as well as the  various changes in its ownership.\f5\fs12 1 \f7\fs20 The traces of the first can be revealed only  by chemical or  physical analyses which it is impossible to perform  on a reproduction; changes of ownership  are subject  to a tradition  which  must  be traced from  the situation of the original.\
\fi311\li2640The  presence of  the  original is the  prerequisite  to  the  con\'ad cept of authenticity.  Chemical analyses of the patina of a bronze can he]p to establish this, as does the  proof  that  a given  mann\'ad script of the Middle Ages stems from  an archive of the fifteenth century. The  whole sphere of authenticity  is outside technical\'ad and, of course, not only technical-reproducibility.\fs12 2  \fs20 Confronted with  its  manual reproduction, which  was usually branded  as a\
\fi140533\sl-288\slmult1
forgery,  the original preserved all its authority; not so \f4\i\fs22 vis \fs36 a \fs22 vis\
\sl-192\slmult1
\f7\i0\fs20 technical reproduction. The  reason is twofold.  First, process re\'ad\
\fi5\sl240\slmult1\li2620\qc
production  is more independent  of  the original than manual re\'ad production.  For  example, in photography, process reproduction can bring  out  those aspects of the original that  are unattainable to the naked eye yet  accessible to  the  lens, which  is adjustable and  chooses its  angle at  will. And  photographic  reproduction, with  the  aid of  certain  processes, such  as en]argement  or  slow motion,  can  capture  images which  escape  natural  vision. Sec\'ad ondly, technical  reproduction can put  the  copy  of  the  original into situations which would be out of reach for the original itself. Above all, it enables the original to meet the  beholder  halfway,\
\
\fi140533\li3000\ql
\f4\i\fs12 220\
\li2860\qj
\f7\i0\fs20 be \fs24 it \fs20 in the form  of a photograph  or a phonograph  record. The cathedral  leaves its locale to be received in the studio  of a lover of art;  the choral  production,  performed  in an auditorium  or \f5\fs22 in \f7\fs20 the open air, resounds in the drawing  room.\
\fi294
The situations into which the product  of mechanical repro\'ad duction  can be brought  may not  touch  the actual  work  of art, yet  the quality  of its presence is always depreciated.  This  holds not  only for  the art  work  but also, for  instance, for  a landscape which  passes in review  before the spectator  in a movie. In  the case of  the  art  object,  a most sensitive nucleus-namely, its au\'ad thenticity-is interfered  with whereas no natural object is vulner\'ad able on that  score. The  authenticity  of a thing is the essence of all that is transmissible from its beginning, ranging  from its sub\'ad stantive duration  to its testimony  to the history  which it has ex\'ad perienced. Since the historical testimony  rests on the authenticity, the former, too, is jeopardized by reproduction when substantive duration  ceases to  matter. And  what  is really  jeopardized when the historical testimony is affected is the authority of the object.\fs12 8\
\fi306\sl-240\slmult1
\fs20 One might subsume the eliminated element in the term "aura" and go on to say:  that  which  withers  in the age of  mechanical\
\fi5\sl240\slmult1\li2820\qc
reproduction is the  aura of the  work  of  art. This  is a sympto\'ad matic process whose significance points b_eyond the realm of art. One  might generalize  by saying:  the  technique  of  reproduction detaches the reproduced  object from  the domain of tradition. By making  many  reproductions it substitutes  a  plurality  of  copies for  a unique  existence. And  in  pennitting the  reproduction to meet  the  beholder  or  listener in his own  particular  situation,  it reactivates the object  reproduced. These  two  processes lead to a tremendous  shattering  of  tradition  which  is the  obverse  of  the contemporary crisis and renewal of mankind. Both processes are intimately  connected   with  the  contemporary  mass movements. Their  most powerful  agent is the film. Its social significance, par\'ad ticularly  in its most  positive \f4\i\fs18 form, \f7\i0\fs20 is inconceivable  without  its destructive,  cathartic  aspect, that is, the  liquidation  of the tradi\'ad tional  value of  the  cultural  heritage. This  phenomenon  is most palpable in the great historical films. It extends to ever new posi\'ad tions. In  1927  Abel  Gance  exclaimed  enthusiastically:  "Shake-\
\
\fi140533\li3220\ql
\f4\i\fs12 221\
\fi5\li2660\qj
\f7\i0\fs20 speare, Rembrandt,  Beethoven will make films ... all legends, all mythologies and all myths, all founders of religion, and the very religions . . . await  their  exposed resurrection,  and  the  heroes crowd  each other  at the gate." \bullet  Presumably  without  intending it, he issued an invitation  to a far-reaching  liquidation.\
\
\
\fi140533\li2960\ql
\f8 III\
\
\fi0\li2640\qj
\f7 During long periods of history, the mode of human sense pel'\'ad ception changes with humanity's entire mode of existence. The manner  in which  human sense perception  is organized,  the  me\'ad dium in which it is accomplished, is determined not only  by na\'ad ture  but  by historical circumstances  as well. The  fifth  century, with its great shifts of population, saw the birth  of the late Ro\'ad man art  industry  and  the  Vienna Genesis, and  there  deve oped not  only  an art  different  from  that  of antiquity  but also a new kind of  perception.  The  scholars of  the  Viennese school,  Riegl and  Wickhoff,   who  resisted  the  weight   of  classical tradition under which these later art forms had been buried, were the first to draw conclusions from them concerning  the organization of perception  at the time. However  far-reaching\'b7 their insight, these scholars limited themselves to showing the significant, formal hallmark  which  characterized  perception  in  late  Roman  times. They  \'b7did not  attempt-and, perhaps, saw no way-to show  the social transformations  expressed by these changes of perception. The  conditions for an analogous insight are more favorable in the present. And if changes in the medium of contemporary percep\'ad tion can be comprehended  as decay of the aura, it is possible to show its social causes.\
\fi300
The  concept  of aura which was proposed above with  refer\'ad ence to historical objects may usefully be illustrated  with  refer\'ad ence to the aura of natural ones. We  define the aura of the latter as the unique  phenomenon of a distance, however  close it  may be. If,  while  resting  on  a summer  afternoont  you  follow  with\
\
\fi140533\sl-216\slmult1\li2880\ql
\fs18 \bullet  Abel Gance, "Le Temps  de l'image est  venu,''  \f4\i L'Art cinematograph...\
\sl-192\slmult1\li2640\qj
\fs20 ique, \f7\i0\fs16 Vol.  \fs12 1, \fs18 pp. \fs16 94f,  Paris, 1917.                                            '\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li3000\ql
\f4\i\fs12 222\
\fi11\li2840\qj
\f7\i0\fs20 your  eyes a mountain  range on the horizon  or  a branch  which casts its shadow over you, you experience  the aura of those mountains, of that branch. This image makes it easy to compre\'ad hend the social bases of the contemporary decay  of the aura. It rests on two  circumstances, both of which  are related to the in\'ad creasing significance of the masses in contemporary life. Namely, the desire of contemporary masses to bring  things "closer"  spa\'ad tially and humanly, which is just as ardent  as their  bent toward overcoming  the uniqueness of every  reality  by accepting its re\'ad production.\fs12 4  \fs20 Every  day  the urge grows  stronger  to get  hold of an object at very close range by way of its likeness, its reproduc\'ad tion.  Unmistakably,  reproduction   as offered  by  picture  mag.a\'ad zines and newsreels differs from  the image seen by the unarmed eye. Uniqueness and permanence are as closely linked in the lat\'ad ter  as are  transitoriness  and  reproducibility   in  the  former.  To pry an object  from its shell, to destroy  its aura, is the mark of a perception whose "sense of the universal equality of things" has increased to such a degree that it extracts it even from a unique object  by means of reproduction. Thus  is manifested in the field of perception what in the theoretical sphere is noticeable in the increasing importance  of statistics. The  adjustment  of  reality  to the masses and of the masses to reality is a process of unlimited scope, as much for  thinking as for  perception.\
\
\
\fi140533\li3120\ql
\f8\fs18 IV\
\
\fi300\li2840\qj
\f7\fs20 The  uniqueness of a work of art is inseparable from its being imbedded in the fabric of tradition. This tradition itself is thor\'ad oughly  alive  and  extremely  changeable.  An  ancient  statue  of Venus, for  example, stood in a different  traditional  context  with the Greeks,  who made \fs22 it \fs20 an object  of veneration,  than with  the clerics  of the  Middle Ages, who viewed  it  as an  ominous idol. Both of them, however, were equally confronted with its unique\'ad ness, that is, its aura. Originally  the contextual  integration  of art in tradition  found  its expression in the  cult. We  know  that  the earliest art works originated in the service of a ritual-first the magical, then the re1igious kind. \f5 It \f7 is significant that the exist nce\
\
\fi140533\li3200\ql
\f4\i\fs12 ZZJ\
\
\li3040\fs20 Illuminationr\
\fi17\li2680\qj
\f7\i0 of the work of art with reference to its aura is never entirely separated  from  its ritual  function.\fs12 5    \fs20 In  other  words,  the  unique value of the "authenticu  work  of art  has its basis in  ritual,  the location  of its  original use value. This  ritualistic  basis, however remote, is still recognizable as secularized ritual even in the most profane forms of the cult of beauty.\fs12 6 \fs20 The secular cult of beauty, developed during  the Renaissance and  prevailing for  three  cen\'ad turies, clearly showed that  ritualistic basis in its decline and  the first deep crisis which befell it. With  the advent of the first truly revolutionary   means of  reproduction,   photography,   simultane\'ad ously with the rise of socialism, art sensed the approaching  crisis which  has become evident a century  later.  At  the time, art  re\'ad acted with the doctrine of \f4\i l'art pour l'art, \f7\i0 that is, with a theology of art. This gave rise to what might be called a negative theology in the form of the idea of "pure" art, which not only denied any social function  of an  but also any categorizing by subject matter. (In  poetry, Mallarme was the first to take this position.)\
\fi0\li2660An analysis of art in the age of mechanical reproduction must do justice to these relationships, for they lead us to an all-impor\'ad tant insight: for the first time in world history, mechanical re\'ad production emancipates the work of art from its parasitical de\'ad pendence on ritual. To an ever greater degree the work of art reproduced  becomes the work  of art designed for  reproducibil\'ad ity.7  From  a photographic  negative, for  example, one can make any number  of prints; to ask for the ''authentic" print  makes no sense. But  the instant  the criterion  of  authenticity  ceases to  be applicable to artistic production, the total function of art is re\'ad versed. Instead of being based on ritual, it begins to be based on another  practice-politics.\
\
\
\fi140533\li2960\ql
\f5 v\
\
\fi294\li2680\qj
\f7 Works  of  art  are  received  and  valued  on  different  planes. Two  polar types stand out:  with one, the accent  is on the  cult value; with  the other, on the exhibition value of the work.\fs12 8  \fs20 Ar\'ad tistic  production   begins  with  ceremonial  objects   destined  to serve in a cult. One  may assume that  what  ma tered\
\
\fi140533\li3040\ql
\f4\i\fs12 224\
\fi5\li2960\qj
\f7\i0\fs20 existence, not their being on view. The  elk portrayed  \f5 by \f7 the man of the Stone Age on the walls of his cave was an instrument  of magic. He did expose it to his fellow men, but in the main it was meant  for  the spirits. Today  the cult  value would  seem to  de\'ad mand that the work  of art remain hidden. Certain statues of gods are accessible only  to  the  priest in  the  cella; certain  Madonnas remain covered  nearly all year round; certain  sculptures  on me\'ad dieval cathedrals  are invisible to the  spectator  on  ground  level. With  the emancipation  of  the various  art  practices  from  ritual go increasing opportunities  for  the exhibition  of their  products. It  is easier to  exhibit a portrait  bust  that  can  be sent  here  and there  than  to  exhibit  the statue  of  a  divinity  that  has its fixed place in the interior  of a temple. The  same holds for the painting as against the mosaic or fresco that preceded it. And even though the public presentability  of a mass originally  may have been just as great  as that  of a symphony,  the latter  originated  at the  mo\'ad ment  when  its public  presentability  promised  to  surpass that  of the mass.\
\fi306
With   the  different  methods  of  technical  reproduction of  a work  of art, its fitness for  exhibition increased to such an extent that the quantitative shift between its two poles turned  into a qualitative transformation  of its nature. This is comparable to the situation  of the  work  of art  in  prehistoric  times when,  by  the absolute emphasis on its cult value, it was, first and foremost, an instrument  of magic. Onll\
\fi5\sl-240\slmult1
a work  of art. In the same way today,  by the absolute emphasis on its exhibition value the work  of art  becom ::\
\fi140533
entirely  new functions,  among which  the  one  we are conscious of, the artistic  function,  later may  be recognized  as incidental.\fs12 9\
\fs20 This  much  is certain:  today  photography and  the  film are  the most serviceable exemplifications of this new function.\
\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li3260\ql
\f8 VI\
\
\fi294\sl-240\slmult1\li2960\qj
\f7 In photography, exhibition value begins to displace cult value all along the line. But cult value does not  give way  without  re\'ad sistance.  It  retires  into  an  ultimate  retrenchment:  the  human\
\
\fi140533\sl240\slmult1\li3340\ql
\f4\i\fs12 22)\
\fi22\li2620\qj
\f7\i0\fs20 countenance.  It  is no  accident  that  the  portrait  was the  focal point of early photography.  The  cult  of remembrance  of loved ones, absent or dead\fs12 1  \fs20 offers a last refuge for the cult value of the picture. For the last time the aura emanates from the early  pho\'ad tographs in the fleeting expression of a human face. This is what constitutes their melancholy, incomparable beauty. But as man withdraws  from the photographic image, the exhibition value for the first time shows its superiority  to  the  ritual  value. To  have pinpointed this new stage constitutes the incomparable significance of Atget, who, around  19oo, took photographs  of deserted Paris streets. It has quite  justly been said of him that he photographed them like scenes of crime. The scene of a crime, too, is deserted; it is photographed for the purpose of establishing evidence. With Atget, photographs become standard evidence for historical oc\'ad currences,  and acquire a hidden political significance. They  de\'ad mand a specific kind of approach; free-floating  contemplation  is not appropriate  to them. They  stir the viewer; he feels challenged by them in a new way. At the same time picture  magazines be\'ad gin  to  put  up signposts for  him, right  ones or  wrong  ones, no matter. For the first time, captions have become obligatory. And it is clear that  they  have an altogether  different  character  than the  title  of  a painting. The  directives  which  the  captions  give to those looking at pictures in illustrated magazines soon become even more explicit and more imperative in the film where the meaning of each single picture appears to be prescribed by the sequence of all preceding ones.\
\
\
\fi140533\li2920\ql
\fs16 VI I\
\
\fi300\li2620\qj
\fs20 The nineteenth-century dispute as to the artistic value of painting versus photography  today seems devious and confused. This does not diminish its importance, however; \fs22 if \fs20 anything, it underlines it. The  dispute was in fact  the symptom  of a histori.. cal transforma ion\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1
ized by either of the rivals. When  the\'b7 age of mechanical repro\'ad duction separated art from its basis in cult,  the semblance of its autonomy  disappeared forc.ver. The resulting change in the func-\
\sl240\slmult1\li2880\fs22 tion of art transcended the perspective of the century; for a long time it even escaped that of the twentieth  century,  which ex\'ad perienced the development of the film.\
\sl-240\slmult1\li3200\ql
Earlier much futile thought had been devoted to the question\
\sl240\slmult1\li2880\qc
of  whether  photography  is  an  art.  The   primary  question\'ad whether the very invention of photography had not transformed the entire nature of art-was not raised. Soon the film theoreti\'ad cians asked the same ill-considered question with regard to the film. But the difficulties which  photography  caused traditional aesthetics were mere child's play as compared to those raised by the film. Whence  the insensitive and forced  character  of early theories of the film. Abel Gance, for instance, compares the film with  hieroglyphs: "Here,  by a remarkable regression, we have come back to the level of expression of the Egyptians. . . \bullet  Pic\'ad torial language has not yet matured because our eyes have not yet adjusted to it. There is as yet insufficient respect for, insuffi\'ad cient cult of, what it expresses." \bullet  Or, in the words of Severin\'ad Mars: HWhat an  has been granted a dream more poetical and more real at the same time! Approached in this fashion the film might represent an incomparable means of expression. Only the most high-minded persons, in the most perfect  and mysterious moments of their lives, should be allowed to enter its ambience." \f5\fs24 t \f7\fs22 Alexandre Arnoux  concludes his fantasy  about  the  silent film with  the question: "Do  not  all the  bold descriptions we  have given amount to the definition of prayer?" \f4\i\fs28 t \f7\i0\fs22 It is instructive to\
\sl-192\slmult1\li2920\qj
note how their desire to class the film among the "arts,  forces\
\fi5\sl-240\slmult1
these theoreticians to read ritual elements into it-with a striking lack of discretion. Yet when these speculations were published,\
\sl240\slmult1
films like \f4\i L'Opinion  publique \f7\i0 and \f4\i The Gold Rush \f7\i0 had already appeared. This, however, did not  keep Abel Gance  from  ad\'ad ducing  hieroglyphs for  purposes of  comparison, nor  Severin\'ad Mars from speaking of the film as one might speak of paintings by Fra Angelico. Characteristically, even today ultrareactionary authors give the film a similar contextual significance-if  not  an\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1\li3160\ql
\fs18 \bullet  Abel Gance, \f4\i op. \fs20 cit., \f7\i0 pp. \fs12 1\fs18 oo-t.\
\sl-168\slmult1
\f5\fs16 t \f7\fs18 severin-Mars,  quoted  \f5 by \f7 Abel Gance, \f4\i op. cit., \f7\i0 P\'b7  \fs12 IOO.\
\sl-192\slmult1
\f5\fs20 t \f7\fs18 Alexandre Amoux, \f4\i Cinema pris, \f7\i0\fs16 1919, \fs18 p. :z8.\
\
\fi5\sl240\slmult1\li2600\qj
\fs20 outright sacred one, then at least a supernatural one. Commenting on  Max  Reinhardt's   film  version  of  \f4\i\fs22 A  Midsummer Night's Dream, \f7\i0\fs20 Werfel  states that undoubtedly  it was the sterile copying of the exterior  world  with its streets, interiors,  railroad stations, restaurants,  motorcars,  and  beaches which  until  now  had  ob\'ad structed  the elevation of the film to the realm of art. "The film has not yet realized its true meaning, its real possibilities ... these consist in its unique faculty  to express by natural means and with incomparable persuasiveness all that is fairylike, marvelous, super\'ad\
\fi140533\li2620natural." "\
\
\
\li2880\qc
\f8 VIII\
\
\fi294\li2620\qj
\f7 The  artistic  performance  of a stage actor  \f5\fs22 is \f7\fs20 definitely  pre\'ad sented  to the public  by  the actor  in  person; that  of the screen actor,  however, is presented by a camera, with a twofold  conse\'ad quence. The  camera that  presents the  performance  of  the  film actor  to the  public need not respect  the  performance  as an in\'ad tegral whole. Guided  by the cameraman, the camera continually changes its  position  with  respect  to  the  performance.  The  se\'ad quence of positional views which  the editor  composes from  the material  supplied  him  constitutes  the  completed  film. It  com\'ad prises certain  factors  of movement which  are in reality  those of the camera, not to mention special camera angles, close-ups, etc. Hence,  the performance  \f4\i\fs22 of  \f7\i0\fs20 the actor  is subjected  to a series of optical  tests.. This  is the  first  consequence  of  the  fact  that  the actorts performance  is presented by means of a camera. Also, the film actor  lacks the opportunity of the stage actor  to  adjust  to the  audience during  his performance, since he does not  present his performance to the audience in person. This  permits the audi\'ad ence to take the position of a critic, without  experiencing any personal  contact   with  the  actor.  The   audience's  identification with the actor is really an identification with the camera. Conse\'ad quently  the  audience  takes  the  position  of  the  camera; its  ap-\
\
\fi249\sl-192\slmult1\li2640\fs18 \bullet  Franz  Werfel,   "Ein  Sommemachtstraum,  Ein  Film  von  Shakespeare und Reinhardt,"  \f4\i Neues Wiener Journal, \f7\i0 cited \f5 in \f4\i Lu 15, \f7\i0 November,  1935.\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1\li2860\fs20 proach \fs22 is \fs20 that of testing.\fs14 10  \fs20 This is not the approach to which cult values may be exposed.\
\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li3140\ql
\f8\fs18 IX\
\
\fi294\li2860\qj
\f7\fs20 For  the film, what  matters  primarily  is that  the actor  repre\'ad sents himself to the public before the camera, rather  than repre\'ad senting someone else. One of the first to sense the actor's  meta\'ad morphosis  by  this form  of  testing was Pirandello. Though   his remarks on the subject  in his novel \f4\i Si Gira \f7\i0 were limited  to the negative aspects of the question and to the silent film only, this hardly  impairs their validity. For  in this respect, the sound film did not change anything  essential. What  matters is that  the part is acted  not for  an audience  but  for  a mechanical contrivance\'ad in the case of the sound film, for two of them. "The  film actor," wrote  Pirandello, "feels as \f5\fs22 if \f7\fs20 in exile-exiled  not  only  from  the stage but  also from  himself. With  a vague  sense of  discomfort he feels inexplicable emptiness:  his body  loses its  corporeality, it evaporates, it is deprived  of reality, life, voice, and the noises caused by his moving about, in order  to be changed into a mute image, flickering an instant on the screen, then vanishing into silence.... The  projector  will play with  his shadow  before the public, and he himself must be content  to play before the cam\'ad era."This situation might  also be characterized  as follows: for\
\fi5
the first time-and this is the effect  of the film-man has to op\'ad erate  with  his whole  living  person,  yet  forgoing  its  aura. For aura is tied  to  his presence; there  can  be no  replica  of it. The aura which, on the stage, emanates from Macbeth, cannot  be separated for the spectators from that of the actor. However,  the singularity  of the shot in the studio is that  the camera is substi\'ad tuted  for  the  public.  Consequently,  the  aura  that  envelops  the actor vanishes, and with it the aura of the figure he portrays.\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1\li3180\ql
It is not surprising that \fs22 it \fs20 should be a dramatist such as Piran\'ad\
\li2880\qj
dello who,  in  characterizing  the  fi]m, inadvertently   touches  on\
\sl240\slmult1
the very crisis in which  we see the theater. J\\ny  thorough  study\
\
\fi249\sl192\slmult1\li2860\fs18 \bullet  Luigi Pirandello, \f4\i\fs20 Si Gira, \f7\i0\fs18 quoted \f5 by \f7 Leon  Pierre-Quint,  "Signification du  cin rna,"\
\
\fi140533\sl240\slmult1\li3020\ql
\f4\i\fs20 Illuminatiom\
\li2640\qj
\f7\i0 proves that  there  is indeed no greater  contrast  than  that  of  the stage play to a work  of art that is completely subject to or, like the film, founded in, mechanical reproduction.  Experts have long recognized that in the film "the greatest effects are almost always obtained  by  'acting'  as little  as possible.... " In  1932 Rudolf Arnheim saw "the latest trend ... in treating  the actor as a stage prop chosen for its characteristics and .\bullet . inserted at the proper place." \f5\fs12 11 \f7\fs20 With  this idea something else is closely connected. The stage actor identifies himself with  the character  of his role. The film actor  very  often is denied this opportunity. His creation  is by no means all of a piece; it is composed of many separate per\'ad formances. Besides certain fortuitous  considerations, such as cost of studio, availability of fellow players, decor, etc., there are elementary  necessities of  equipment  that  split  the  actor's  work into a series of mountable episodes. In particular, lighting and its installation  require  the  presentation  of  an  event  that,  on  the screen, unfolds as a rapid and unified scene, in a sequence of separate shootings which may take hours at the studio; not to mention more obvious montage. Thus  a  jump from  the window can be shot in the studio as a jump from  a scaffold; and the en\'ad suing flight, if need be, can  be shot  weeks later  when  outdoor scenes are taken. Far  more paradoxical cases can  easily be con\'ad strued. Let us assume that an actor is supposed to be startled  by a knock  at  the door. \f5 If \f7 his reaction  is not  satisfactory,  the  di\'ad rector  can resort to an expedient: wheri the actor  happens to be at the studio  again he has a shot  fired behind  him without  his being forewarned  of it. The  frightened  reaction can be shot now and  be  cut  into  the  screen  version.  Nothing   more  strikingly shows  that  art  has left  the  realm of  the  ubeautiful  semblance" which, so far, had been taken  to  be the  only  sphere  where  art could thrive.\
\
\
\li2960\ql
\f5\fs16 X\
\
\fi294\li2680\qj
\f7\fs20 The  feeling of  strangeness that  overcomes  the  actor  before the camera, as Pirandello describes it, is basically of the same kind as the estrangement  felt  before  one's own .image in  the  mirror.\
\
\fi5\li2940\ql
But now the reflected image has become separable, transportable. And  where  is \fs22 it  \fs20 transported?  Before  the  public.\fs14 12   \fs20 Never  for  a moment does the screen actor cease to be conscious of this fact. While  facing  the camera  he knows that  ultimately  he will face the public, the consumers who constitute  the market. This  mar\'ad ket, where he offers not only his labor but also his whole self, his heart  and soul, is beyond  his reach. During  the shooting  he has as little contact  with it as any article made in a factory. This  ma\'b7,v contribute to that oppression, that new anxiety which, accordinii; to  Pirandello,  grips  the  actor  before  the  camera. The  film re sponds to the shriveling of the aura with an artificial build-up o the "personality" outside the studio. The  cult  of the movie star, fostered  by  the  money  of  the film industry,  preserves not  the unique aura of the person but the "spell of the personality/' the phony spell of a commodity. So long as the movie-makers' capi\'ad tal sets the fashion,\'b7 as a rule no other  revolutionary  merit can be accredited  to today's  film than the promotion  of a revolutionary criticism of traditional  concepts of art. We  do not deny  that  in some cases today's films can also promote  revolutionary  criticism of social conditions, even of the distribution  of property.  How\'ad ever,  our  present  study  is no more  specifically concerned  with this than is the film production  of Western  Europe.\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1\li3260It is inherent  in the technique  \f4\i\fs28 of \f7\i0\fs20 the film as well as that  of\
\li2960sports that everybody  who witnesses its accomplishments is some\'ad\
\sl240\slmult1
what of an expert. This is obvious to anyone listening to a group of newspaper  boys  Jeaning on  their  bicycles and  discussing the outcome  of a bicycle  race. It is not for  nothing  that  newspaper publishers  arrange  races for  their  delivery  boys. These  arouse great  interest  among  the  participants, for  the victor  has an  op portunity   to  rise from  delivery  boy  to  professional racer. Sim\'ad ilarly, the newsreel offers everyone the opportunity to rise from passer-by to movie extra. In this way  any  man might even find himself part  of a work  of art, as witness Venoff's \f4\i Three Songs\
\sl-240\slmult1
About Lenin \f7\i0 or Ivens' \f4\i Borinage. \f7\i0 Any man today can lay claim to\
\sl-216\slmult1
being filmed. This claim can best be elucidated  by a comparative\
\sl-240\slmult1
look at the  historical situation  of contemporary  literature.\
\li3260For centuries a small number of writers  were  confronted by\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li3340\f4\i\fs12 231\
\fi5\li2620\qj
\f7\i0\fs20 many thousands of readers. This changed  toward  the end of the last century.  With  the increasing extension of  the  press, which kept  placing new political, religious, scientific, professional, and local organs before the readers, an increasing number of readers became writers-at first, occasional ones. It  began with  the daily press opening to its readers space for "letters  to the editor." And today there is hardly a gainfully employed  European  who could not, in  principle, find an opportunity to  publish somewhere  or other  comments on  his work,  grievances, documentary  reports, or  that sort  of thing. Thus,  the distinction  between  author  and public is about to lose its basic character. The  difference becomes merely  functional;  \fs22 it \fs20 may vary  from  case to  case. At  any  mo\'ad ment the reader is ready to turn  into a writer.  As expert, which he had to become willy-nilly in an extremely specialized work process, even if only in some minor respect, the reader gains ac\'ad cess to  authorship.  In  the Soviet  Union  work  itself  is given  a voice. To  present it verbally is part of a man's ability to perform the work. Literary  license is now founded  on polytechnic  rather than specialized training  and thus becomes common  prope.rty.\fs14 18\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1\li2920\ql
\fs20 All  this can easily be applied to  the  film, where  transitions\
\fi11\sl240\slmult1\li2620\qj
that in literature  took centuries have come about in a decade. In cinematic practice, particularly in Russia, this change-over  has partially  become established reality. Some of  the  players  whom we meet in Russian films are not actors in our sen?e but  people who portray  \f4\i themselves-and \f7\i0 primarily in their own work  proc\'ad ess. In  Western  Europe  the  capitalistic exploitation  of  the  film denies consideration  to  modern  man's legitimate  claim to  being\
\fi140533\li2640reproduced. Under these circumstances the film industry is trying hard to spur the interest of the masses through  illusion*promoting spectacles and dubious speculations.\
\
\
\li2920\ql
\f8\fs18 XI\
\
\fi306\li2640\qj
\f7\fs20 The  shooting  of a film, especially of a sound  film, affords a spectacle unimaginable anywhere at any time before this. It pre\'ad sents a process in which it is impossible to assign to a spectator a viewpoint  which  would  exclude from  the  actual  scene  such\
\
\fi140533\li3000\ql
\f9\i\fs16 2JZ\
\
\li2880\qj
\f7\i0\fs20 extraneous  accessories as \'b7camera equipment,  lighting  machinery, staff assistants, etc.-unless his eye were on a line parallel with the lens. This  circumstance,  more  than  any  other,  renders  super\'ad ficial and insignificant any possible similarity  between  a scene in the studio and one on the stage. In the theater  one is well aware of  the  place  from  which  the  play  cannot  immediately  be  de\'ad tected  as illusionary. There  is no such place for  the movie scene that is being shot. Its illusionary nature  is that of the second de\'ad gree, the result of cutting. That is to say, in the studio the rne.\'ad chanical equipment  has penetrated  so deeply into  reality  that  its pure aspect freed from the foreign substance of equipment is the result  of a special procedure,  namely,  the shooting  \f5 by \f7 the  spe\'ad cially  adjusted  camera  and  the  mounting  of  the  shot  together with  other  similar  ones. The  equipment-free  aspect  of  reality here  has become  the  height  of  artifice;  the  sight  of immediate reality  has become an orchid in the land of technology.\
\fi300\li2900Even more revealing is the comparison of these circumstances, which  differ so much from those of the  theater,  with the situa\'ad tion in painting. Here  the question is: How  does the cameraman compare  with  the  painter?  To  answer  this we  take recourse  to an analogy with a surgical operation. The  surgeon  represents the polar opposite of the magician. The  magician heals a sick person by  the  laying  on  of  hands; the surgeon  cuts  into  the  patient's body. The magician maintains the natural distance between the patient  and  himself; though  he reduces  it  very  slightly  by  the laying  on of  hands, he greatly  increases it  by  virtue  of  his au\'ad thority.  The  surgeon does exactly the reverse; he greatly dimin\'ad ishes the distance between himself and the patient \f5 by \f7 penetrating into  the patient's  body, and increases it  but little \f5 by \f7 the caution with which his hand moves among the  organs. In short, in con\'ad trast  to the magician-who is still hidden  in the  medical practi\'ad tioner-the surgeon  at the decisive moment abstains from  facing the  patient  man to man; rather, it is through  the operation  that he penetrates into him.\
\fi306
Magician  and  surgeon  compare  to  painter  and  cameraman. The  painter maintains in his work a natural distance from reality, the cameraman penetrates  deeply into  its web.\fs12 14  \fs20 There  is a tre-\
\
\fi5\li2680mendous difference between the pictures they obtain. That  of the painter is a total one, that of the cameraman consists of multiple fragments which are assembled under a new law. Thus, for con\'ad temporary man the representation of reality by the film is in\'ad comparably  more  significant  than  that  of  the  painter,  since  it offers,  precisely  because of  the  thoroughgoing   permeation  of reality with mechanical equipment, an aspect of reality  which is free  of  all equipment.  And  that  is what  one is entitled  to  ask from  a work  of art.\
\
\
\fi140533\li2960\ql
\fs16 X I I\
\
\fi306\li2680\qj
\fs20 Mechanical reproduction  of art changes the reaction of the masses toward  art.  The  reactionary   attitude  toward  a  Picasso painting changes into the progressive reaction toward a Chaplin movie. The  progressive reaction  \fs22 is \fs20 characterized  by  the  direct, intimate fusion of visual and emotional enjoyment  with  the ori\'ad entation of the expert. Such fusion is of great social significance. The greater  the decrease in the social significance of an art form, the sharper  the distinction between  criticism  and enjoyment  by the  public.  The  conventional  is  uncritically   enjoyed,  and  the truly  new is criticized\'b7 with aversion. With  regard to the screen, the critical and the receptive attitudes of the public coincide. The decisive reason for  this is that individual  reactions are predeter\'ad mined by the mass audience response they are about to produce, and this is nowhere  more pronounced  than in the film. The  mo\'ad ment these responses become manifest they control  each other. Again, the comparison with painting is fruitful.  \fs22 A \fs20 painting has always had an excellent chance  to  be viewed  by  one  person or by  a  few.  \fs22 The  \fs20 simultaneous  contemplation  of  paintings  by  \fs22 a \fs20 large public, such as developed in the  nineteenth  century, is an early symptom  of  the crisis of painting, a crisis which  was by no means occasioned exclusively by  photography but  rather  in \f5\fs16 a \f7\fs20 relatively independent  manner  by  the  appeal of art  works  to the masses.\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1\li2980\ql
Painting simply is in no position to present an object  for si\'ad\
\li2700\qj
multaneous collective experience, as it was possible for  architec-\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li3040\ql
\f4\i\fs16 234\
\
\li2900\qj
\f7\i0\fs20 ture at all times, for the epic poem in the past, and for the movie today.  Although  this circumstance  in itself should  not  lead  one to conclusions about the social role of painting, it does constitute a serious threat  as soon as painting, under special conditions  and, as it were, against its nature, is confronted  directly  by the masses. In  the churches  and monasteries of the  Middle Ages and at  the princely  courts  up  to the end of the  eighteenth  century,  a col\'ad lective  reception  of paintings did not  occur  simultaneously,  but by  graduated  and  hierarchized  mediation.  The  change  that  has come about  is an expression of  the  particular  conflict in  which painting was implicated by the mechanical reproducibility of paintings. Although  paintings began  to  be publicly  exhibited  in galleries and salons, there was no way  for  the masses to organize and control  themselves in their reception.\fs12 15 \fs20 Thus  the same public which responds in a progressive manner toward  a grotesque film is bound  to respond in a reactionary  manner to surrealism.\
\
\
\li3200\ql
\fs16 X I I I\
\
\fs20 The  characteristics  of  the film lie not  only in thr\
\li2900which  man presents himself to mechanical equipment  but also in the manner in which,  by means of this apparatus, man can rep\'ad resent  his environment.  A glance at occupational  psychology  \fs24 il \fs20 lustrates  the  testing  capacity  of  the  equipment.  Psychoanalysis illustrates it in a different  perspective. The  film has enriched  our field  of  perception   with  methods  which  can  be  illustrated  by those of Freudian  theory.  Fifty  years ago, a slip of  the  tongue passed more  or  less unnoticed.  Only  exceptionally  may  such  a\
\fi5\qj
slip have revealed  dimensions of  depth  in  a conversation  which had seemed to be taking its course on the surface. Since the \f4\i\fs24 Psy\'ad \fs22 chopfl.thology of Everyday Life \f7\i0\fs20 things  have changed. This  book isolated and made analyzable things which  had heretofore  floated along unnoticed  in the broad stream of  perception.  For  the  en\'ad tire spectrum  of optical, and now also acoustical, perception  the film has brought  about  a similar deepening  of  apperception.  \f5 It \f7 is only  an obverse  of  this fact  that  behavior  items shown  in  a movie  can  be  analyzed  much  more  precisely  and  from  more\
\
\fi140533\li3280\ql
\f4\i\fs16 235\
\fi11\li2660\qj
\f7\i0\fs20 points of view than those presented on paintings or on the stage. As compared  with  painting,  filmed behavior  lends itself  more readily to analysis because of its incomparably  more precise statements  of the situation. In comparison  with  the stage scene, the filmed behavior item lends itself more readily to analysis be\'ad cause it  can  be isolated more easily. This  circumstance  derives its chief importance from its tendency to promote the mutual penetration  of art and science. Actually,  of a screened  behavior item  which  is neatly  brought  out  in  a certain  situation,  like  a muscle of a body, it is difficult to say which is more fascinating, its  artistic  value  or  its  value for  science. To  demonstrate  the identity  of the artistic and scientific uses of photography which heretofore  usually were separated will be one of the revolution- ary functions of the film.\fs12 16                                               ,\
\fi306
\fs20 By close-ups of the things around  us, by  focusing on hidden details of  familiar  objects,  by  exploring  commonplace  miliens under the ingenious guidance of the camera, the film, on the one hand, extends our  comprehension  of  the  necessities which  rule our lives; on the  other  hand, it manages to assure us of an im\'ad mense and unexpected field of action. Our  taverns and our met\'ad ropolitan  streets,  our  offices and furnished  rooms, our  railroad stations and our  factories appeared  to  have us locked  up  hope\'ad lessly. Then  came the  film and burst  this  prison-world  asunder by the  dynamite  of  the  tenth  of a second, so that  now, in  the midst  of  its far-flung  ruins  and  debris,  we  calmly  and  adven\'ad turously  go  traveling.  With   the  close-up,  space  expands;  with slow motion, movement is extended. The  enlargement of a snap\'ad\
\fi5\sl-240\slmult1
shot does not simply render  more precise what  in \fs24 any \fs20 case was visible, though  unclear: it reveals entirely  new structural  forma\'ad\
\fi140533
tions of the subject. So, too, slow motion not only presents famil\'ad\
\fi5\sl240\slmult1
iar qualities of movement but  reveals in them entirely  unknown ones "which,  far  from  looking  like  retarded  rapid  movements, give the effect of singularly gliding, floating, supernatural  mo\'ad tions.,,*  Evidently  a different  nature  opens itself to  the  camera\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1
. than  opens to  the naked eye-if only  because an  unconsciously penetrated  space is substituted  for  a space consciously  explored\
\sl240\slmult1\li2920\ql
\fs18 \bullet  Rudolf  Amheim,  \f4\i\fs20 loc. cit., \f7\i0\fs18 p. \fs16 138.\
\fi5\li2940\qj
\fs20 by man. Even \fs22 if \fs20 one has a general knowledge  of the way  people walk, one knows  nothing  of a person's posture  during  the frac\'ad tional second of a stride. The  act of reaching  for  a lighter  or a spoon is familiar routine, yet we hardly know what really goes on between hand and metal, not to mention how this fluctuates with our moods. Here  the camera intervenes with  the resources of its lowerings  and  liftings, its interruptions and  isolations, its exten\'ad sions and accelerations, its enlargements and reductions. The cam\'ad era introduces  us to unconscious optics as does psychoanalysis to unconscious impulses.\
\
\
\fi140533\li3240\ql
\f8\fs18 XIV\
\
\fi306\li2940\f7\fs20 One of the foremost  tasks of art has always been the creation of a demand which could be fully s tisfied \tab \tab \fs12 17  \fs20 The  his\'ad tory  of every  art  form shows critical epochs in which  a certain an form  aspires to  effects which  could  be fully  obtained  only with  a changed  technical  l;tandard, that  is to  say, in a new  art form. The  extravagances an,' crudities of art wb; -thus appear, particularly  in the so-called \fs22 ch.   \f5\fs20 -.t!""..... -::-\tab '\tab --\tab  \f7 arise from the nucleus of its richest histork \tab _er :..-s.\
\fi140533\li2960\qj
barbarisms were abundant in \f5\fs16 r \f7\fs20 -atstn. It is only now that its im\'ad pulse becomes discerniblr   J.Jadaism attempted  to create by pic\'ad torial-and  literary-'!'iteans  the  effects  which   the  public  today seeks in the film.\
\fi294
Every  fundamentally   new,  pioneering. creation  of  demands will carry  beyond  its goal. Dadaism did so to  the extent  that  it sacrificed  the  market  values which  are  so characteris ic\
\fi140533
film in favor of higher ambitions-though of course it was not conscious of such intentions  as here described. The  Dadaists at\'ad tached  much  less importance  to  the  sales value  of  their  work than  to its uselessness for  contemplative immersion. The  studied degradation  of their  material was not the least of their means to achieve this uselessness. Their  poems are "word  salad" containing obscenities aqd every imaginable waste product  of language. The same is true  of their  paintings, on which  they  mounted  buttons and  tickets. What they  intended  and  achieved  was a relentless\
\
\li3040\ql
\f4\i\fs18 Illuminations \f7\i0 \'b7\
\
\fi22\li2620\qc
\fs22 destruction of the aura of their creations, which they branded as reproductions with the very means of production. Before a paint\'ad ing of Arp's or a poem \f5 by \f7 August Stramm it is impossible to take time for contemplation and evaluation as one would before a canvas of Derain's or a poem by Rilke. In the decline of middle\'ad class society, contemplation became a school for asocial behavior; it was countered by distraction as a variant of social conduct.\fs16 18\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1\li2640\qj
\fs22 Dadaistic activities actually assured a rather  vehement distrac\'ad tion by making works of art the center of scandal. One require\'ad ment was foremost: to outrage the public.\
\fi323\sl240\slmult1\li2620From an alluring appearance or persuasive structure of sound the work  of art of the Dadaists became an instrument of bal\'ad listics. It hit the spectator like .a bullet, it happened to him, thus acquiring a tactile quality. It  promoted a demand for  the film, the distracting element of which is also primarily tactile., being based on changes of place and focus which periodically assail the spectator. Let  us compare the screen on  which a film unfolds with the canvas of a painting. The painting invites the spectator to contemplation;  before it  the spectator  can abandon himself to his associations. Before the movie frame he cannot do so. No sooner has his eye grasped a scene than it is already changed. It cannot  be arrested. Duhamel, who detests the  film and  knows nothing  of  its significance, though something of  its structure, notes this circumstance as follows: "I can no longer think what\
\fi5\sl-240\slmult1
I want to think. My thoughts have been replaced by moving images."* The spectator's process of association in view of these images is indeed interrupted \f5\fs20 by \f7\fs22 their constant, sudden change. This constitutes the shock effect of the film, which, like all shocks, should be cushioned by heightened presence of mind.\fs14 19\
\fi140533
\fs22 By means of its technical structure, the film has taken the phys\'ad\
ical shock effect out of the wrappers in which Dadaism had, as it were, kept it inside the moral. shock effect.\f5\fs12 2\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li2860\ql
\f7\fs18 \bullet  Georges Duhamel, \f4\i Scenes de la vie future, \f7\i0 Paris, \fs16 1930, \fs18 p. \fs16 51.\
\
\
\li3240\fs14 XV\
\
\fi345\li2900\fs20 The  mass is a matrix from which  all traditional  behavior  to ward works of art issues today in a new form. Quantity  has been transmuted  into  quality.  The  greatly  increased  mass of  partici\'ad pants has produced  a change in the mode  of participation.  The fact  that  the new  mode of participation  first appeared  in a dis\'ad reputable  form must not confuse the spectator.  Yet some people have  launched  spirited  attacks  against  precisely  this superficial aspect. Among  these, Duhamel has expressed himself in the  most radical manner. What  he objects to most is the kind of  partici\'ad pation  which  the  movie elicits from  the  masses. Duhamel  calls the  movie  "a  pastime  for  helots,  a  diversion  for  uneducated, wretched,  worn-out  creatures who are consumed  by their  wor\'ad ries . . . , a spectacle  which requires  no concentration  and  pre\'ad supposes no intelligence \bullet .. , which kindles no light in the heart and awakens no hope other  than the ridiculous one of someday becoming a 'star> in Los Angeles." \bullet  Clearly, thls is at bottom  the same ancient lament that  the masses seek distraction  whereas art demands concentration  from  the spectator.  That  is a common\'ad place. The  question  remains whether  it  provides a platform  for the analysis of the film. A closer look is needed here. Distraction and concentration form  polar opposites which  may be stated  as follows:  A  man who  concentrates  before  a work  of  art  is ab\'ad sorbed by it. He enters into this work of art the way legend tells of the Chinese painter  when he viewed  his finished painting. In contrast,  the  distracted  mass absorbs  the  work  of  art.  This  is most obvious with  regard  to buildings. Architecture has always represented  the  prototype of  a  work  of  art  the  reception   of which is consummated  by a collectivity  in a state of distraction. The  laws of its rectption are most instructive.\
\fi306\qj
Buildings have been man's companions since primeval times. Many  \fs16 art \fs20 forms  have developed and  perished. Tragedy   begins with  the Greeks,  is extinguished with  them,  and after  centuries its "rules" only are revived. The  epic poem, which had its origin\
\
\fi140533\li3140\ql
\fs18 \bullet  Duhamel. \f4\i\fs20 op. cit., \f7\i0 p. \fs16 58.\
\
\li3260\f9\i 239\
\
\li3060\f4\fs20 Illuminations\
\fi34\li2640\f7\i0 in the youth  of nations, expires in Europe  at the end of the Ren\'ad aissance. Panel  painting  is a creation  of  the  Middle  Ages, and nothing  guarantees  its  uninterrupted   existence. But  the  human need for  shelter  is lasting. Architecture has never  been idle. Its history is more ancient than that of any other  art, and its claim to being a living force has significance in every attempt  to com\'ad prehend  the  relationship of the masses to  art.  Buildings are ap\'ad propriated  in a twofold  manner: \f5\fs22 by \f7\fs20 use and  by  perception-or rather, \f5\fs22 by \f7\fs20 touch and sight. Such appropriation  cannot be under\'ad stood in terms of the attentive concentration  of a tourist  before a famous building. On the tactile side there is no cou_nterpart to contemplation  on the optical side. Tactile appropriation  is accom\'ad plished, not so much by attention as by habit. As regards architec\'ad ture,  habit  determines to a large extent  even optical  reception. The  latter, too, occurs much less through  rapt  attention  than by noticing  the  object  in incidental  fashion. This  mode  of  appro\'ad priation,  developed  with  reference  to  architecture,   in  certain circumstances  acquires canonical value. For  the tasks which  face the human apparatus of perception  at the turning  points of his\'ad tory  cannot  be solved by  optical means, that  is, by  contempla\'ad tion,  alone. They   are  mastered gradually  by  habit,  under  the guidance of tactile appropriation.\
\fi306
The  distracted person, too, can form habits. More, the ability to master certain  tasks in a state of distraction  proves that  their solution has become a matter of habit. Distraction as provided by art  presents a covert  control  of the  extent  to  which  new  tasks have become soluble by apperception. Since, moreover, individ uals are tempted to avoid such tasks, art will tackle the most dif\'ad ficult and  most important  ones where  it is able to  mobilize the masses. Today  it does so in the film. Reception  in a state of dis\'ad traction,  which is increasing noticeably  in all fields of art  and \fs22 is \fs20 symptomatic  of  profound  changes in apperception,  finds in  the film its  true  means of  exercise. The  film with  its shock  effect meets this mode of reception  halfway. The  film makes the  cult value recede into the background not only by putting  the public in the position of the critic, but also by the fact that at the movies\
\fi140533\li2940this position requires no attention. The  public is an examiner, but an absent-minded one.\
\
\
\li3240\fs16 EPILOGUE\
\
\fi311\li2920\qj
\fs20 The growing proletarianization of modern man and the in\'ad creasing formation of masses are two aspects of the same process. Fascism  attempts   to   organize   the   newly   created   proletarian masses without  affecting the property  structure which the masses strive to eliminate. Fascism sees its salvation in giving these masses not their right, but instead a chance to express themselves.\fs12 21  \fs20 The masses have a right  to  change property  relations;  Fascism seeks to give them an expression while preserving property.  The  log\'ad ical result of Fascism is the introduction  of aesthetics into  politi\'ad cal  life. The  violation  of  the  masses,. whom  Fascism, with  its \f4\i\fs24 Fuhrer \f7\i0\fs20 cult, forces to their knees, has its counterpart in the vio\'ad lation  of  an apparatus  which  is pressed into  the  production of ritual values.\
\fi306\ql
All efforts to render  politics aesthetic culminate in one thing: war. War  and war only can set a goal for mass movements on the largest  scale  while  respecting  the  traditional  property   system. This is the political formula for  the situation. The  technological formula may be stated as follows: Only  war makes it possible to mobilize all of today's  technical resources while maintaining the property  system. It goes without  saying that  the Fascist apothe\'ad osis of  war  does  not  employ  such  arguments.  Still,  Marinetti says in his manifesto on the Ethiopian colonial war: "For  twenty\'ad seven years we  Futurists  have rebelled  against  the  branding  of war as antiaesthetic.... Accordingly  we state: ... War  is beau\'ad tiful  because it  establishes man's dominion  over  the subjugated machinery \f5\fs22 by \f7\fs20 means of gas masks, terrifying  megaphones, flame throwers, and small tanks. War is beautiful because it initiates the dreamt-of metalization of the human body. War  is beautiful  be\'ad cause it enriches a flowering  meadow with  the fiery  orchids  of machine guns. War  is beautiful because \fs22 it \fs20 combines the gunfire, the  cannonades,  the  cease-fire, the  scents,  and  the  stench   of putrefaction  into a symphony. War  is beautiful because it creates\
\
\fi140533\li3080\f4\i\fs16 Illuminati\fs20 om\
\fi5\li2700\f7\i0 new architecture,  like that of the big tanks, the geometrical for\'ad mation flights, the smoke spirals from  burning villages, and many others.... Poets and artists  of Futurism!  ... remember  these principles of an aesthetics of war so that your struggle for a new literature and a new graphic art ... may be illumined by them!"\
\fi345\li2640This manifesto has the virtue  of clarity.  Its formulations  de\'ad serve to be accepted by dialecticians. To  the latter, the aesthetics of  today's  war  appears as follows: \f5 If \f7 the  natural  utilization  of productive  forces  is impeded  by  the  property  system,  the  in\'ad crease in technical devices, in speed, and in the sources of energy will press for  an unnatural  utilization, and this is found  in war. The  destructiveness of war furnishes proof  that society  has not been mature enough to incorporate  technology  as its organ,  that technology  has not been sufficiently developed to cope with  the elemental forces  of  society.  The  horrible  features  of  imperial\'ad istic  warfare  are  attributable   to  the  discrepancy  between  the tremendous means of production  and their inadequate utilization in the process of production-in other  words, to unemployment and the lack of markets. Imperialistic war is a rebellion of tech\'ad nology  which  collects,  in  the  form  of  "human  material,"  the claims to which  society  has denied its  natural  material. Instead of draining  rivers, society  directs a human stream into  a bed of trenches; instead of  dropping  seeds from  airplanes, it  drops  in\'ad cendiary  bombs over cities; and through  gas warfare  the aura is abolished in a new way.\
\fi300\qj
\f4\i "Fiat ars-pereat mundus," \f7\i0 says Fascism, and, as Marinetti ad\'ad mits, expects war to supply the artistic gratification of a sense perception  that  has been  changed  by  technology.  This  is evi\'ad dently  the consummation  of \f4\i\fs22 "tart  pour \fs20 l,art." \f7\i0 Mankind, which in Homer's  time was an object  of contemplation  for  the  Olym\'ad pian gods, now  is one  for  itself. Its self-alienation  has reached such a degree that it can experience its own destruction  as an aesthetic pleasure of the first order. This is the situation of poli\'ad tics which Fascism is rendering  aesthetic. Communism responds\
\fi140533\li2660\ql
by politicizig\
\
\
\
\
\li3060\f4\i\fs12 242\
\
\
\
\
\li3200\fs24 7\\lotes\
\
\
\fi283\li2880\qj
\f7\i0\fs20 I. Of course, the history of a work of art encompasses more than this. The  history  of the "Mona  Lisa," for instance, encompasses the kind and number of its copies made in the 17th, I8th, and 19th cen\'ad turies.\
\fi277\sl216\slmult1
\f4\i :. \f7\i0 Precisely  because authenticity  is not  reproducible,  the  inten\'ad sive penetration  of  certain  (mechanical)  processes \f4\i of  \f7\i0 reproduction was instrumental in differentiating and grading authenticity. To  de\'ad velop such differentiations was an important  function of the trade  in works of art.  The  invention  of the  woodcut  may  be said to  have struck at the root of the quality of authenticity  even before its late\
\fi5\sl240\slmult1
flowering. To  be sure, at the time of its origin a medieval picture of the Madonna could not yet be said to be "authentic." It became "authentic'' only  during  the succeeding centuries  and  perhaps most strikingly so during  the last one.\
\fi277\sl216\slmult1
\f4\i 3: \f7\i0 The  poorest provincial staging of  \f4\i Faust \f7\i0 is superior  to  a Faust film in that, ideally, it competes with  the first performance  at Wei\'ad mar.  Before  the  screen  it  is unprofitable  to  remember  traditional contents  which  might  come to mind  before  the stage-for  instance, that Goethe's friend Johann  Heinrich  Merck is hidden in Mephisto, and the like.\
\fi266\sl240\slmult1\li2900\ql
4\'b7 To satisfy the human interest of the masses may mean to have one's  social function  removed  from   the  :field of  vision. Nothing guarantees that a portraitist  of today,  when  painting a famous sur\'ad geon at the breakfast table in the midst of his family, depicts his so cial function  more precisely than a painter of the  I 7th century  who portrayed  his medical  doctors  as  representing  this  profession, like Rembrandt  in his "Anatomy  Lesson."\
\fi277\sl216\slmult1
\f4\i 5. \f7\i0 The  definition of the aura as a "unique  phenomenon of a dis\'ad tance however close it may be" represents nothing  but the formula tion of the cult value of the work of art  in categories of space and time perception. Distance is the opposite of closeness. The  essentially distant  object  is  the  unapproachable  one.  Unapproachability  is in\'ad deed a major quality of the cult image. True  to its nature, it remains "distant,  however  close it  may be." The  closeness which  one  may gain from  its subject  matter  does not  impair  the  distance which  it retains in its appearance.\
\
\fi140533\sl240\slmult1\li3040\f4\i Illuminations\
\fi266\li2660\fs18 6. \f7\i0\fs20 To  the  extent  to which  the  cult  value of  the  painting  is secu\'ad larized  the  ideas  of  its  fundamental uniqueness  lose  distinctness.  In the  imagination  of  the  beholder  the  uniqueness  of  the  phenomena which  hold  sway  in  the  cult  image is more  and  more  displaced  by the empirical  uniqueness of the creator or of his creative  achievement. To  be sure, never  completely so; the  concept  of authenticity always transcends  mere  genuineness.  (This   is  particularly apparent  in  the collector   who  always  retains  some  traces  of  the  fetishist  and  who, by owning  the work  of art, shares in its ritual  power.) Nevertheless the  function   of  the  concept  of  authenticity remains  determinate \f5 in \f7 the evaluation  of art;  with  the secularization  of art,  authenticity dis\'ad places the cult  value of the  work.\
\fi277\qj
7. In  the  case of  .films, mechanical  reproduction is  not,  as with literature and painting, an external condition for  mass distribution. Mechanical  reproduction is inherent  in the very technique  \f4\i of \f7\i0 .film production. This  technique  not  only  permits  in the most  direct  way but virtually  causes mass distribution. It enforces  distribution because the production of a film is so expensive  that  an individual  who, for instance, might  afford  to buy a painting  no longer  can afford  to buy a film. In 1917 it was calculated  that  a major  film, in  order   \f5\fs14 to  \f7\fs20 pay its way,  had  to  reach  an audience  of  nine  million. With the  sound film, to  be sure,  a setback  in  its  international distribution occurred at  first:  audiences  became  limited  by  language  barriers.  This   coin\'ad cided   with   rhe  Fascist  emphasis  on  national   interests.  It   is  more important to focus on  this connection  with  Fascism than  on  this set\'ad back,  which  was soon  minimized  by  synchronization. The  simulta\'ad neity  of  both  phenomena  is attributable to the  depression. The same disturbances  which,  on  a larger  scale, led  to an  attempt  to  maintain the  existing  property structure  by  sheer  force  led  the  endangered film capital  to speed  up  the development  of the sound :film. The  \f5 in\'ad \f7 troduction  of  the sound  film  brought  about  a  temporary relief,  not only  because it again  brought  the  masses into  the  theaters  but  also because it merged  new  capital from  the electrical  industry  with  that of the .film industry. Thus,  viewed  from  the  outside,  the sound  film promoted  national interests, but seen from the inside it helped to internationalize film  production even  more  than  previously.\
\fi266\li2680\fs18 8. \fs20 This  polarity   cannot   come  into  its  own  in  the  aesthetics  of Idealism. Its idea of beauty comprises these polar opposites without differentiating between  them  and  consequendy excludes  their  polar\'ad ity.  Yet in Hegel  this polarity  announces  itself  as clearly  as possible\
\fi140533\li2920within the limits of Idealism. We quote from his \f4\i Philosophy of   His\'ad\
\sl-216\slmult1\li2940tory:\
\li3300\f7\i0 "Images were known of old. Piety at an early time required them\
\fi5\sl216\slmult1
for  worship,  but  it  could  do  without  \f4\i beautiful  \f7\i0 images. These might  even  be  disturbing. In  every  beautiful  painting  there  \f5\fs18 is \f7\fs20 also something nonspiritual, merely external, but its spirit speaks to  man  through  its  beauty.  Worshipping,  conversely,  is  con\'ad cerned with the work as an object, for it is but a spiritless stupor of the soul. \bullet   . . Fine art  has arisen . \bullet  \bullet  in the church  . . \bullet  , al\'ad though it has already gone beyond its principle as art!'\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1\li2920Likewise, the  following  passage from  \f4\i The  Philosophy of   Fine Art\
\sl-192\slmult1\li2940\f7\i0 indicates that  Hegel sensed a problem  here.\
\fi11\sl216\slmult1\li3300"We  are beyond the stage of reverence  for  works of art  as di\'ad vine and objects deserving our worship. The  impression they produce is one of a more reflective kind, and the emotions they arouse require a higher test...."-G. W.  F. Hegel, \f4\i The Philos\'ad ophy of Fine Art, \f7\i0 trans., with notes, by F. P. B. Osmaston, Vol.\
\fi140533\sl-216\slmult1\li3320\fs14 I, \fs20 p. n, London,  \fs14 1910.\
\li3200\fs20 The  transition from the .first kind of artistic reception to the sec\'ad\
\fi22\sl240\slmult1\li2920ond characterizes  the history of artistic  reception  in general.  Apart from  that, a certain oscillation between these two polar modes of re\'ad ception can be demonstrated for each work of art. Take the Sistine Madonna. Since Hubert  Grimme's research  it has been known  that the Madonna originally was painted for the purpose of exhibition. Grimme's  research was inspired by  the  question:  What  is the  pur\'b7 pose of  the  molding  in  the  foreground  of  the  painting  which  the two  cupids  lean  upon?  How,  Grimme  asked further,  did  Raphael come  to furnish  the sky with  two  draperies?  Research  proved  that the Madonna had been commissioned for  the public lying-in-state of Pope  Sixrus. The  Popes lay  in state in  a certain  side chapel  of St. Peter's. On that occasion Raphael's picture had been fastened in a nichelike background  of the chapel, supported  by the coffin. In  this picture  Raphael portrays  the Madonna approaching  the papal coffin in clouds from  the background of the niche, which was demarcated by green drapes. -At the obsequies of Sixtus a pre-eminent exhibition value of Raphael's picture  was taken advantage  of. Some time later it was placed on the high altar in the church  of the Black Friars at Piacenza. The  reason for this exile is to be found in the Roman rites which forbid  the use of pai tings\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1
jects on the high altar. This regulation devalued Raphael's picture  to\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li2980\ql
\f4\i llluminations\
\li2600\qj
\f7\i0 some degree. In order  to obtain an adequate  price nevertheless, the Papal See resolved to add  to  the bargain the  tacit toleration  of the picture  above  the  high  altar.  To  avoid  attention  the  picture  was given to the monks of the far-off provincial town.\
\fi272
9\'b7 Bertolt Brecht, on a different level, engaged in analogous re\'ad flections: \f5 "If  \f7 the concept of 'work  of art'  can no longer  be applied to the thing that emerges once the work is transformed into a com\'ad modity,  we  have to  eliminate this concept  with  cautious  care  but without fear, lest we liquidate the function  of the very thing as well. For it has to go through  this phase without  mental reservation, and not  as noncommittal  deviation from  the straight  path; rather,  what happens here with the work of art will change it fundamentally and erase its past to such an extent that should the old concept  be taken up again-and  it will, why  not?-it will no longer  stir any  memory \f4\i of  \f7\i0 the thing it once designated.''\
\fi289
\fs14 10. \fs20 ''The  film \bullet  . . provides-or could  provide-useful  insight into the details of human actions. . \bullet . Character is never used as a source of motivation; the inner life of the persons never supplies the prin\'ad cipal  cause  of  the  plot  and  seldom  is  its  main  result."   (Bertolt Brecht, \f4\i Versuche, \f7\i0 'lDer Dreigroschenprozess," p. 168.) The  expansion of the field of the testable which mechanical equipment brings about for the actor corresponds to the extraordinary expansion of the field of the testable brought about for the individual through economic conditions. Thus, vocational aptitude tests become constandy  more important. What  matters  in  these tests are  segmental performances of the individual. The  film shot and the vocational aptitude  test are taken  before  a committee  of  experts. The  camera  director  in  the studio occupies a place identical with that of the examiner during aptitude tests.\
\fi294\sl216\slmult1\li2620u. Rudolf  Arnheim, \f4\i Film als Kunst, \f7\i0 Berlin, \fs16 1931,  \fs20 pp.   \fs16 176 \f5\fs20 f. \f7 In this context certain seemingly unimportant  details in which  the film director  deviates from  stage practices gain in  interest. Such  is the attempt to let \f4\i the \f7\i0 actor play without make-up, as made among others by  Dreyer  in  his \f4\i Jeanne d'Arc. \f7\i0 Dreyer  spent  months  seeking  the forty  actors who constitute the Inquisitors' tribunal. The  search for these actors  resembled  that  for  stage  properties  that  are  hard  to come by. Dreyer  made every  effort  to avoid  resemblances of  age, build, and physiognomy. \f5 If \f7 the actor  thus becomes a stage property, this latter, on the other hand, frequently  functions as actor. At least it is not  unusual for  the film to assign a role to  the stage property.\
\fi5\sl240\slmult1\li2840Instead of choosing at random from  a great  wealth of examples, let us  concentrate  on  a  particularly  convincing  one. A  clock  that  is working  will always be a disturbance on  the stage. There  it cannot be permitted  its function  of measuring time. Even  in a naturalistic play, astronomical time would clash with theatrical time. Under these circumstances it \f5 is \f7 highly revealing that  the film can, whenever ap\'ad propriate, use time as measured by a clock. From this more than from many other  touches it may clearly be recognized  that under\'b7 certain circumstances each and every prop in a film may assume important functions. From  here it is but one step to Pudovkin's statement that "the  playing of an actor  which is connected  with  an object  and  is\
\fi140533\sl216\slmult1\ql
'built around  it . . . is always one of the strongest  methods of cine\'ad matic construction."  (W.  Pudovkin, \f4\i Filmregie  und Filmmanuskript, \f7\i0 Berlin, \fs18 1918, \fs20 p. \fs18 126.)  \fs20 The film \f5 is \f7 the first art form capable of demon\'ad strating  how matter plays tricks on man. Hence, .films can be an ex cellent means of materialistic representation.\
\fi294\sl240\slmult1\qj
u. The\'b7 change noted here in the method of exhibition caused by mechanical  reproduction   applies to  politics  as  well.  The   present crisis of the bourgeois democracies comprises a crisis of the condi\'ad tions which determine  the public presentation of  the rulers. Democ\'ad racies exhibit a member of government  directly  and  personally be\'ad fore  the nation's  representatives. Parliament  is his public. Since the innovations of camera ana recording equipment  make it possible for the orator  to become audible and visible to an unlimited number of persons, the  presentation of the man of  policies before  camera and recording equipment becomes paramount. Parliaments, as much as theaters, are deserted. Radio and film not only affect the function of the  professional actor  but  likewise the  function  of  those who  also exhibit themselves before this mechanical equipment, those who gov\'ad ern. Though  their  tasks may be different, the change affects equally the actor and the ruler. The  trend is toward  establishing controllable and transferrable skills under certain social conditions. This results in a  new selection, a selection before  the  equipment  from  which  the star and the dictator  emerge victorious.\
\sl-216\slmult1
\fs16 13. \fs20 The privileged character of the respective techniques is lost. Aldous Huxley writes:\
\fi11\sl216\slmult1\li3200uAdvances in technology have led ... to vulgarity.... Process reproduction  and the rotary  press have made possible the indefi\'ad nite multiplication of writing  and  pictures.  Universal education\
\fi140533\sl-216\slmult1
and relatively high wages have created  an enormous public who\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li3220\f4\i\fs16 247\
\fi5\li3100\ql
\f7\i0\fs20 matter. A great industry has been called into existence in order to supply these commodities. Now, artistic talent is a very rare phe nomenon; whence it follows \bullet \bullet . that, at every epoch and in all countriest\'b7most art has been bad. But the proportion  of trash \f5 in \f7 the total artistic output is greater now than at any other  period.\
\fi11\li3080\qj
That  it must be so is a matter of simple arithmetic. The  popula\'ad tio)J of Western Europe has a little more than doubled during the last century.  But the amount of reading-and seeing-matter has increased, I should imagine. at least twenty  and possibly fifty or even a hundred times. \f5 If \f7 there were n men of talent in a popula\'ad tion of  x millions, there  will  presumably  be 1n  men  of  talent among zx millions. The  situation may  be summed up  thus. For every page of print and pictures published a century ago, twenty or  perhaps even a hundred  pages are  pubJished today. But for every man of talent then living, there are now only two men of talent. It  may be of course that,  thanks to  unive sal\
\fi140533\sl-216\slmult1
many potential talents which in  the past would have been still\'ad\
born are now enabled to realize themselves. Let us assume, then,\
\li3060\'b7that there are now three or even four men of talent to every one\
\fi5\sl240\slmult1\li3080of earlier times. It still remains true to say that the consumption of reading-and seeing-matter has far outstripped the natural production of gifted writers and draughtsmen. It is the same with hearing-matter. Prosperity, the gramophone and the radio have created an audience of hearers who consume an amount of hear\'ad ing-matter that has increased out of all proportion  to the increase of population and the consequent natural increase of talented mu\'ad sicians. It follows from all this that in all the arts the output  of trash is both absolutely and relatively greater  than it was in the past; and that it must remain greater for  just so long as the world continues to consume the present inordinate  quantities of  read\'ad ing-matter, seeing-matter, and hearing-matter.''-Aldous Huxley, \f4\i Beyond the Mexique Bay. A Traveller's  Journal, \f7\i0 London,  \fs16 1949, \fs20 pp. \fs16 274 \f5\fs20 ff. \f7 First published in \fs16 1934.\
\fi140533\li3020\fs20 This mode of observation is obviously not progressive.\
\fi289\sl216\slmult1\li2720\fs16 14. \fs20 The  boldness of the cameraman is indeed comparable to that of the surgeon. Luc Durtain lists among specific technical sleights of hand those "which are required in surgery in the case of certain dif\'ad ficult operations. I choose as an example a case from oto-rhino\'ad laryngology; .\bullet . the so-called endonasal perspective  procedure;  or\
\
\fi140533\sl240\slmult1\li3240\ql
\f4\i\fs18 The Work of Art in the Age \fs16 of   \fs18 Mecbamcal  \fs16 Reproduction\
\fi5\li2860\qj
\f7\i0\fs20 I refer to the acrobatic tricks of larynx surgery which have to be per\'ad formed  following  the reversed picture \f5 in \f7 the  laryngoscope. I might also speak of ear surgery  which suggests the precision work  of watchmakers. What  range of the most subtle muscular acrobatics is required from the man who wants to repair or save the human body! We  have only  to  think  of  the couching  of  a cataract  where  there is  virtually  a  debate  of  steel  with  nearly  fluid  tissue, or  of  the major abdominal operations (laparotomy)."-Luc Durtain, \f4\i op. cit.\
\fi294
\f7\i0 15. This  mode of observation may seem crude,  but  as the  great theoretician Leonardo has shown, crude modes of observation may at times be usefully  adduced. Leonardo  compares  painting  and  music as follows:  ''Painting  is superior  to  music  because, unlike unfortu\'ad nate music, it does not have to die as soon as it is born. . . \bullet   Music which is consumed in the very act of its birth  is inferior to painting which the use of varnish has rendered eternal."  (Trattato I, 19.)\
\fs18 16. \fs20 Renaissance painting offers a revealing analogy  to  this situa\'ad tion. The  incomparable development of  this arc and  its significance rested not least on the integration of a number of new sciences, or at least of new scientific data. Renaissance painting made use of anatomy and perspective, of mathematics, meteorology, and chromatology. Valery  writes:  "What could  be further   from  us  than  the  strange claim of a Leonardo  to whom painting was a supreme goal and  the ultimate demonstration of knowledge? Leonardo  was convinced that painting demanded  universal knowledge, and he did not even shrink from a theoretical analysis which to us is stunning because of its very depth and precision.\bullet .."-Paul Valery,  \f4\i Pieces sur l'art, \f7\i0 "Autour  de Coro"            \fs14 191.\
\li2840\fs20 17. "The  work of art,U says Andre Breton, "is valuable only in so far as it is vibrated by the reflexes of the future."  Indeed, every  de\'ad veloped art form intersects three lines of development. Technology works toward  a certain  form  of art. Before  the  advent  of  the  film there  were  photo  booklets  with  pictures  which  flitted  by  the  on\'b7 looker upon pressure of the thumb, thus portraying  a boxing bout or a tennis match. Then  there were the slot  machines in  bazaars; their picture sequences were produced by the turning  of a crank.\
\fi140533\sl-216\slmult1\li3120\ql
Secondly, the traditional  art forms in certain  phases of their  de\'ad\
\li2840\qj
velopment strenuously  work  toward  effects which  later  are  effort\'ad\
lessly attained  by  the  new  ones. Before  the  rise of  the  movie  the\
\li2700\ql
Chaplin later evoked in a more natural way.\
\fi294\sl240\slmult1\li2660\qj
Thirdly,  unspectacular social changes often  promote a change in receptivity  which  will benefit the new  art  form.  Before the  movie had begun to create its public, pictures that were no longer immobile captivated  an  assembled audience in  the  so-called  \f4\i Kaiserpanorama. \f7\i0 Here  the  public assembled before a screen  into  which stereoscopes were mounted, one to each beholder. By a mechanical process indi\'ad vidual pictures appeared  briefly before  the  stereoscopes, then  made way for others. Edison still had to use similar devices \f5 in  \f7 presenting the  first  movie  strip  before  the  film  screen  and  projection   were known. This strip was presented to a small public which stared into the apparatus in which the succession of pictures was re'eling off. In\'ad cidentally, the institution of the \f4\i Kaiserpanorama \f7\i0 shows very  clearly\
\fi140533\sl-192\slmult1\li2680\ql
a dialectic of the development. Shortly  before the movie turned  the\
\sl-216\slmult1\li2660reception of pictures into a collective one, the individual viewing of pictures in these swiftly outmoded establishments came into play once\
more with an intensity comparable to that  of the ancient priest be\'ad\
\li2680holding the statue of a divinity  in the cella.\
\fi294\sl240\slmult1\li2660\qj
\fs16 18. \fs20 The  theological archetype of this contemplation \f5 is \f7 the aware\'ad ness of being alone with  one's God. Such awareness, in the  heyday of the bourgeoisie, went to strengthen  the freedom to shake off cler\'ad ical tutelage. During the decline of the bourgeoisie this awareness had to take into account  the  hidden tendency  to withdraw  from  public affairs those forces which the individual draws upon in his commun\'ad ion with God.\
\fi289
\fs16 19. \fs20 The  film is the art form that is in keeping with the increased threat  to his life which  modem  man has to face. Man's need  to ex\'ad pose himself to shock effects is his adjusnnent  to the dangers threat\'ad ening him. The  film corresponds to profound  changes in the apper\'ad ceptive  apparatus-changes   that  are  experienced  on  an  individual scale by the man in the street in big-city traffic, on a historical scale by every  present-day  citizen.\
\fi277
\fs12 20. \fs20 As for  Dadaism, insights important  for  Cubism and Futurism are to be gained from  the movie. Both appear as deficient attempts of art to accommodate the pervasion of reality by the apparatus. In contrast to the film, these schools did not try to use the apparatus as such for  the artistic  presentation of reality, but  aimed at some sort of alloy in the  joint presentation of  reality and apparatus. In \fs18 Cubismt\
\
\fi140533\li3040\ql
\f4\i\fs12 2j0\
\
\li3200\fs20 The Work of   Art in the Age \fs16 of  \fs20 Mechanical Reproduction\
\li2880\qj
\f7\i0 the  premonition  that  this  apparatus  will  be  structurally   based  on optics  plays a dominant  part;  in Futurism,  it  is the  premonition  of the effects of this apparatus which are brought  out  by the rapid se\'ad quence of the film strip.\
\fi283
\fs14 11. \fs20 One technical feature is significant here, especially with regard to newsreels, the propagandist importance of which can hardly  be overestimated. Mass reproduction  is aided especially by the repro\'ad duction of masses. In big parades and monster rallies, in sports events,\
\fi140533\li2860\bullet .  and in war, all of which nowadays are captured  by camera and sound recording,  the masses are brought  face to face with  themselves. This process, whose significance need not be stressed, \f5\fs18 is \f7\fs20 intimately con\'ad nected with the development of the techniques of reproduction  and photography.  Mass movements are usually discerned more clearly by a camera than by the naked eye. \f5 A \f7 bird's-eye view best captures gath\'ad erings of hundreds of thousands. And even though such a view may be as accessible to the human eye as it  is to  the  camera, the  image received by  the  eye  cannot  be enlarged  the  way  a negative  is en\'ad larged. This means that mass movements, including  war, constitute  a form of human behavior which particularly favors mechanical equip\'ad ment.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\li3280\ql
\f4\i\fs12 2)1\
\
\li3240\f5\i0\fs50 +\
\
\f4\i\fs36 'Jheses  on the :Philosophy of  \fs32 'RiSlory\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\f5\i0\fs16 I\
\
\fi306\li2920\qj
\f7\fs22 The story is told of an automaton constructed in such a way that it could play a winning game of chess, answering each move of an opponent with a countermove. A puppet in Turkish attire and with a hookah in its mouth sat before a chessboard placed on a large table. A system of mirrors created the illusion that  this table was transparent from all sides. Actually, a little hunchback who was an expert chess player sat inside and guided the pup\'ad pet's hand by means of strings. One can imagine a philosophical counterpart  to this device. The  puppet  called ''historical mate\'ad rialism" is to win all the time. It can easily be a match for anyone if it enlists the services of theology, which today, as we know, is wizened and has to keep out of sight.\
\
\
\fi140533\li3200\ql
\f5\fs16 II\
\
\fi311\sl216\slmult1\li2900\qj
\f7\fs22 "One  of  the  most remarkable characteristics of  human na\'ad ture," writes Lotze, "is, alongside so much selfishness in specific instances, the freedom from envy which the present displays to\'ad ward the future.'' Reflection shows us that our image of happi-\
\fi5\sl240\slmult1\li2640\fs20 ness is thoroughly  colored  by  the  rime to  which  the  course  of our  own  existence has assigned us. The  kind  of  happiness that could arouse envy in us exists only in the air we have breathed, among people we could have talked to, women who could have given themselves to us. In other words, our image of happiness is indissolubly bound up with the image of redemption. The same applies to our view of the past, which is the concern  of history. The  past carries with it a temporal index by which it is referred to redemption. There  is a secret agreement between past genera\'ad tions and the  present one. Our  coming  was expected  on  earth. Like every  generation  that  preceded us, we have been endowed with a \f4\i weak \f7\i0 Messianic power, a power  to which  the  past has a claim. That  claim cannot  be settled cheaply. Historical  material\'ad ists are aware of that.\
\
\
\fi140533\li2920\ql
\f5\fs14 III\
\
\fi294\li2620\qj
\f7\fs20 A  chronicler  who  recites  events without   distinguishing  be\'ad tween major and minor ones acts in accordance  with  the follow\'ad ing truth: nothing  that  has ever happened should be regarded  as lost for  history. To  be sure, only a redeemed  mankind  receives the fullness of its past-which is to say, only for  a redeemed man\'ad kind has its past become citable in all its moments. Each moment\
\fi140533\sl-312\slmult1
it has lived becomes a \f4\i\fs22 citation \fs34 a \fs22 l'ordre du jour-and \f7\i0\fs20 that  day is\
\sl-192\slmult1
Judgment Day.\
\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li2900\ql
\f8\fs18 IV\
\
\li2980\f4\i\fs20 Seek  for food and clothing  first, then\
\sl-216\slmult1
the Kingdom of God shall be added unto you.\
\sl-192\slmult1\li5440\qc
\f7\i0 -Hegel, \fs16 1807\
\fi300\sl240\slmult1\li2620\qj
\fs20 The  class struggle, which is always present  to a historian in\'ad fluenced by  Marx, is a :fight for  the crude  and  material  things without  which no refined and spiritual things could exist. Never\'ad theless, \fs22 it \fs20 is not in the form of the spoils which fall to the victor that the latter  make their presence felt in the class struggle. They\
\
\fi140533\li2980\ql
\f4\i\fs12 2)4\
\
\li3220\fs20 Theses  on the Philosophy of HistMy\
\li2860\qj
\f7\i0\fs22 manifest themselves in this struggle as courage, humor, cunning, and fortitude. They  have retroactive force  and will constantly call in question every victory, past and present, of the rulers. As flowers tum toward the sun, by dint of a secret heliotropism the past strives to turn toward that sun which is rising in the sky of history. A historical materialist must be aware of this most in\'ad conspicuous of all transformations.\
\
\
\li3160\ql
\f5\fs20 v\
\
\fi306\li2860\qj
\f7\fs22 The true picture of the past flits by. The  past can be seized only as an image which flashes up at the instant when it can be recognized and is never seen again. "The  truth will not run away from us": in the historical outlook of historicism these words of Gottfried  Keller mark the exact point where historical material\'ad ism cuts through historicism. For every image of the past that is not recognized by the present as one of its own concerns threat\'ad ens to disappear irretrievably. (The  good tidings which the his\'ad torian of the past brings with throbbing  heart may be lost in a void the very moment he opens his mouth.)\
\
\
\fi140533\li3160\ql
\f8\fs16 VI\
\
\fi306\sl216\slmult1\li2860\qj
\f7\fs22 To articulate the past historically does not mean to recognize \fs24 it \fs22 "the way it really was" (Ranke). It  means to seize hold of a memory as it flashes up at a moment of danger. Historical mate\'ad rialism wishes to retain that image of the past which unexpect\'ad edly appears to man singled out by history at a moment of dan\'ad ger. The danger affects both the content of the tradition and its receivers. The same threat hangs over both: that of becoming a tool of the ruling classes. In every era the attempt must be made anew to wrest tradition awav froin a conformism that is about to overpower it. The  Messiah "'comes not only as the redeemer, he comes as the subduer of Antichrist. Only that historian will have the gift of fanning the spark of hope in the past who is firmly convinced that \f4\i\fs20 even the dead \f7\i0 will \fs22 not be safe from the enemy if he wins. And this enemy has not ceased to be victorious.\
\
\fi140533\sl240\slmult1\li3240\ql
\f4\i\fs14 2)5\
\
\li2980\fs20 Illuminations\
\
\
\f8\i0 VII\
\li3000\f4\i Consider the darkness and the great cold\
\sl-192\slmult1
In this vale which resounds with mysery.\
\sl-168\slmult1\li3980\f7\i0\fs18 -Brecht, \fs12 THE  THREEPENNY   OPERA\
\
\fi306\sl240\slmult1\li2700\qj
\fs20 To  historians who wish to relive an era, Fustel de Coulanges recommends that they blot out everything  they know about  the later course of history. There  is no better  way of characterizing the method with which  historical materialism has broken. It is a process of  empathy  whose origin is the indolence  of  the  heart, \f4\i acedia, \f7\i0 which  despairs of grasping and holding the genuine  his\'ad torical image as it flares up briefly. Among medieval theologians it was regarded  as the root  cause of sadness. Flaubert,  who  was familiar  with  it, wrote:  \f4\i "Peu de gens devineront combien il a \fs22 fallu \fs20 etre triste  pour ressusciter  Carthage." \f7\i0 \bullet  The  nature  of  this sadness stands out more clearly if one asks with whom the adher\'ad ents of historicism actually  empathize. The  answer is inevitable: with  the victor. And  all rulers are the  heirs of  those who  con\'ad quered before them. Hence, empathy with the victor invariably benefits the rulers. Historical materialists know what  that  means. Whoever  has emerged victorious  participates  to  this day in  the\
\fi11
triumphal procession in which the present rulers step over  those who  are lying  prostrate.  According  to  traditional  practice,  the spoils are carried  along in the procession. They  are  called cul\'ad tural treasures, and a historical materialist views them with  cau\'ad tious detachment. For without  exception the cultural treasures he surveys  have  an  origin  which  he  cannot  contemplate  without horror. They  owe their existence not  only  to the efforts  of  the great  minds and talents who  have created  them, but  also to  the anonymous  toil of  their  contemporaries. There  is no  document of civilization which is not at the same time a document  of bar\'ad barism. And  \f4\i\fs22 just   \f7\i0\fs20 as such a document  is not  free  of  barbarism,\
\fi140533\sl-216\slmult1
barbarism taints also the manner in which it was transmitted from\
\sl240\slmult1
one owner  to another. A  historical materialist therefore  dissoci-\
\
\sl-216\slmult1\li2920\ql
\fs18 \bullet  "Few will be able to guess how sad one had to be in order  to  resusci\'b7\
\sl-192\slmult1\li2700\qj
tate Carthage!'\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li3280\ql
\f4\i\fs20 Theses on the Philotophy of HistO'Ty\
\fi5\li2900\f7\i0 ates himself from it as far as possible. He  regards it as his task to brush  history  against the  grain.\
\
\
\fi140533\li3200\fs16 VI II\
\
\fi0\li2860\qr
\fs20 The  tradition  of  the  oppressed teaches us that  the  "state  of emergency"  in which  we live is not  the  exception  but  the  rule. We  must attain to a conception of history that is in keeping with this insight. Then  we shall clearly  realize  that  it \fs22 is \fs20 our  task to bring  about  a  real  state  of  emergency,  and  this  will  improve our  position  in  the  struggle  against  Fascism. One  reason  why Fascism has a chance is that in the name of progress its opponents treat  it  as a  historical  nann.  The  current amazement  that  the things  we  are  experiencing  are  "still"  possible in the  twentieth century  is \f4\i\fs22 not \f7\i0\fs20 philosophical. This  amazement  is  not  the  begin\'ad ning of knowledge-unless it is. the  knowledge  that  the  view of\
\fi140533\li2920\ql
history  which gives rise to it is untenable.\
\
\
\li3200\f8\fs18 IX\
\sl-192\slmult1\li3280\f4\i\fs20 Mein Fliigel ist zum Schwung bereit, icb kebrte ge_rn  zuriick,\
\fi5\li3260denn blieb ich aucb Jebendige Zeit, ich hiitte wenig Gluck.\
\fi140533\li3440\f7\i0 -Gerhard Scholem, "Gruss vom Angelus'' \bullet \
\fi294\sl240\slmult1\li2900\qj
A Klee painting named "Angelus Novus" shows an angel look\'ad ing as though  he is about  to move  away  from  something  he is fixedly contemplating.  His  eyes are staring,  his mouth  is open, his wings are spread. This  is how  one pictures  the angel  of  his\'ad tory.  His face is turned  toward  the  past. Where  we perceive  a chain of events, he sees one single catastrophe  which keeps piling wreckage  upon  wreckage  and hurls it in front  of \fs22 his \fs20 feet. The angel would like to stay, awaken the dead, and make whole  what has been  smashed.  But  a storm  is blowing  from  Paradise; it  has\
\
\fi140533\sl216\slmult1\li3080\qc
\bullet  \f4\i My \fs18 wing is ready  \fs20 for \fs18 flight, I would like to turn back.\
\sl-192\slmult1\li3220\ql
lf I stayed timeless time,\
1 would ha'Ve   little luck.\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li3000\fs20 Illuminatiom\
\fi5\li2640\qj
\f7\i0 got caught in his wings with such violence that the angel can no longer  close them. This  storm  irresistibly  propels  him into  the future  to which his back is turned, while the pile of debris before him grows skyward. This storm is what  we call progress.\
\
\
\fi140533\li2920\ql
\f5\fs14 X\
\
\fi294\li2640\qj
\f7\fs20 The  themes which  monastic discipline assigned to  friars for meditation were designed to turn them away from the world and its affairs. The  thoughts which we are developing here originate from similar considerations. At a moment when the politicians in whom  the  opponents  of  Fascism  had  placed  their  hopes  are prostrate  and confirm their defeat by betraying  their own  cause, these observations are intended to disentangle the political world\'ad lings from  the snares in which  the traitors  have entrapped  them. Our consideration proceeds from the insight that the politicians' stubborn  faith in progress, their confidence in their "mass basis,'' and,  .finally, their  servile  integration  in  an  uncontrollable   ap\'ad paratus  have  been three  aspects of  the  same thing.  It  seeks to convey  an idea of the  high price our  accustomed  thinking  will have to  pay  for  a conception  of  history  that  avoids any  com\'ad plicity with the thinking to which these politicians continue to adhere.                                                                         \'b7\
\
\
\fi140533\li2900\ql
\f8\fs18 XI\
\
\fi300\li2620\qj
\f7\fs20 The  conformism  which  has been  part  and  parcel  of  Social Democracy from the beginning attaches not only to its political tactics but to \f4\i its \f7\i0 economic views as well. It is one reason for its later  breakdown.  Nothing  has corrupted the  German  working class so much as the notion that it was moving with the current. It regarded  technological  developments as the fall of the stream with  which  it  thought  it was moving. From  there  it was but  a step to the illusion that the factory  work which was supposed to tend toward technological progress constituted a political achieve\'ad ment. The  old Protestant  ethics of work  was resurrected  among\
\
\fi140533\li3000\ql
\f4\i :zss\
\
\li3280\fs18 Theses on the Philorophy of   History\
\fi22\li2880\qj
\f7\i0\fs20 German  workers  in secularized fonn. The  Gotha  Program \bullet  al\'ad ready bears traces of this confusion, defining labor as "the source of  all wealth  and  all culture."  Smelling  \fs22 a  \fs20 rat,  Marx countered that "... the man who possesses no other  property than his labor power''  must of necessity become "the  slave of  other  men who have made themselves the owners.\bullet .." However, the confusion spread,  and  soon  thereafter   Josef  Dietzgen   proclaimed:   "The savior of modern times is called work. The . . . improvement ..\bullet  of labor constitutes  the wealth which  is now able to accomplish what no redeemer has ever been able to do." This vulgar-Marxist conception  of the nature of labor bypasses the question of how its products might benefit the workers while still not being at their disposal. \f5 It \f7 recognizes only the progress in the mastery of nature, not  the retrogression  of society; it  already  displays the techno\'ad cratic features later encountered in Fascism. Among these is a conception  of  nature  which  differs ominously  from  the  one in the  Socialist utopias  before  the  1848  revolution.  The  new  con\'ad ception  of  labor  amounts  to  the  exploitation  of  nature,  which with na'i'Ve complacency  is contrasted with the exploitation of the proletariat. Compared with this positivistic conception, Fourier's fantasies, which have so often been ridiculed, prove to be sur\'ad prisingly sound. According  to Fourier,  as a result of efficient co\'ad operative  labor, four  moons would  illuminate  the earthly  night, the ice would  recede from  the poles, sea water  would no longer taste salty, and beasts of  prey would  do man's  bidding. \fs22 All \fs20 this illustrates  a kind  of  labor  which, far  from  exploiting  nature,  is capable  of delivering  her  of the creations  which  lie dormant  in her  womb  as  potentials.  Nature,   which,   as  Dietzgen  puts  it, "exists gratis," is a complement  to  the  corrupted conception  of labor.\
\
\fi255\sl216\slmult1\li2860\fs18 \bullet  The  Gotha  Congress of \fs16 187; \fs18 united the  two  German  Socialist parties, one  led  \f5 by  \f7 Ferdinand   LassaUe, the  other  \f5 by  \f7 Karl   Marx  and  Wilhelm Liebknecht.  The   program.  drafted  by  Liebknecht   and  \fs16 Lassalle,  \fs18 was  se\'ad verely  attacked  \f5 by  \f7 Marx in  London. See his "Critique  of  the  Gotha  Pro\'ad gram."\
\
\fi140533\sl240\slmult1\li2980\ql
\f4\i\fs20 llluminatjons\
\
\
\li2960\f8\i0\fs16 XII\
\fi17\sl-192\slmult1\li2980\f4\i\fs20 We need history, but not the way a spoiled loafer in the garden of knowledge needs it.\
\fi140533\li3740\qc
\f7\i0\fs18 -Nietzsche, \fs12 OF  THE  USE AND ABUSE OF  HISTORY\
\
\fi0\sl240\slmult1\li2660\ql
\fs20 Not  man or  men but  the struggling,  oppressed class itself is the depository of historical knowledge. In Marx it appears as the last enslaved class, as the avenger that completes the  task of lib\'ad eration  in  the  name  of  generations  of  the  downtrodden. This convictiowhich had a brief resurgence :n the Spartacist group,\bullet  has always been objectiortable to Social Democrats. Within  three decades  they  managed virtually  to  erase  the  name  of  Blanqui, though   it  had  been  the  rallying  sound  that  had  reverberated through  the preceding century.  Social Democracy  thought  fit to assign to  the  working  class the role  of  the  redeemer  of  future generations, in this way cutting the sinews of its greatest strength. This  training made the working  class forget  both its hatred  and its spirit of sacrifice, for both are nourished by the image of en\'ad slaved ancestors rather  than that of liberated grandchildren.\
\
\
\fi140533\li2940\fs16 X I I I\
\sl-192\slmult1\li3000\f4\i\fs20 Every  day our cause becomes clearer and people get smarter.\
\li3900\f7\i0\fs18 -Wilhelm Dietzgen\f5\fs8 1  \f7\fs12 DIE  RELIGION  DEB. SOZIALDEMOKB.ATJE\
\sl240\slmult1\li3020\fs20 ocial\
\fi5\li2660\qj
been formed  by a conception  of progress which did  r:ot adhere to reality  but made dogmatic claims. Progress as pictured  in the minds of Social Democrats was, first of all, the progress of man\'ad kind itself  (and  not  just advances in  men's  ability  and  knowl\'ad edge). Secondly, it was s<Jmething boundless, in keeping with the infinite perfectibility  of mankind. Thirdly, progress was regarded as irresistible, something that automatically pursued a straight  or spiral course. Each of these predicates is controversial  and open\
\
\fi249\sl-192\slmult1\li2640\fs18 \bullet  Leftist  group,  founded  by  Karl  Liebknecht  and  Rosa Luxemburg  at the beginning of World  War  I in opposition to the pro-war  policies of the Gennan  Socialist \fs16 party,  \fs18 later  absorbed by the Communist party.\
\fi140533\sl240\slmult1\li2940\fs22 to criticism. However, when the chips are down, criticism must penetrate beyond these predicates and focus on something that they have in common. The concept of the historical progress of mankind cannot be sundered from the concept of \fs20 its \fs22 progression through a homogeneous, empty time. A critique of the concept of such a progression must be the basis of any criticism of the concept of progress itself.\
\
\
\li3240\ql
\fs16 XIV\
\
\sl-192\slmult1
\f4\i\fs18 Origin is the goal.\
\li3460\f7\i0\fs20 -Karl Kraus, \fs12 WORTE  IN  VERSEN,  \fs20 Vol. I\
\
\fi306\sl240\slmult1\li2940\qj
\fs22 History is the subject of a structure  whose site is not homo\'ad geneous, empty rime, but time filled by, the presence of the now \fs20 [/\f4\i etztzeit].\f7\i0 \bullet  \fs22 Thus,  to  Rohespierre  ancient  Rome  was  a  past charged with the time of the now which he blasted out of the continuum of history. The  French  Revolution viewed itself as Rome  reincarnate.  It  evoked ancient  Rome  the  way  fashion evokes costumes of the past. Fashion has a flair for the topical, no matter where it stirs in the thickets of long ago; it is a tiger's leap into the past. This jump, however, takes place in an arena where the ruling class gives the commands. The same leap in the open air of history is the dialectical one, which is how Marx under\'ad stood the revolution.\
\
\
\fi140533\li3240\ql
\f8\fs18 XV\
\
\fi306\li2940\qj
\f7\fs22 The awareness that they are about to make the continuum of history explode is characteristic of the revolutionary classes at the moment of their action. The great revolution introduced a new calendar. The initial day of a calendar serves as a historical time\'ad lapse camera. And, basically, it is the same day that keeps recur\'ad ring in the guise of holidays, which are days of remembrance. Thus the calendars do not measure time as clocks do; they  are\
\
\fi255\sl192\slmult1\li2920\fs18 \bullet  Benjamin \fs16 says \f4\i\fs18 "]etztzeit" \f7\i0 and indicates \fs16 by  \fs18 the quotation  marks that  he \fs20 does \fs18 not  \fs16 simply   \fs18 mean  an  equivalent  to  \f4\i Gegenwart, \f7\i0 that  is. present.  \fs20 He \fs16 clearly  is \fs18 thinking \fs16 of  \fs18 the \fs16 mystical  \f4\i 1mnc stam\bullet \
\
\fi140533\sl240\slmult1\li3320\ql
\fs18 .z61\
\
\li3000\fs20 Illuminations\
\fi5\li2600\qj
\f7\i0 monuments of a historical consciousness of which not\'b7 the slightest trace has been apparent in Europe in the past hundred  years. In the July revolution an incident occurred  which showed this con\'ad sciousness still alive. On the first evening of fighting it turned  out that the clocks in towers were being fired on simultaneously and independently  from several places in Paris. An eye-witness, who may  have owed his insight to the rhyme, wrote as follows:\
\
\sl-216\slmult1\li2960\ql
Qui le croirait! on dit, qu'irrites contre l'heure De nouveaux Josues au pied de chaque tour, Tiraient  sur les cadrans pour arreter  le jour.\bullet \
\
\
\fi140533\sl240\slmult1\li2900\fs16 XVI\
\
\fi300\li2620\qj
\fs22 A  \fs20 historical  materialist cannot  do  without  the  notion  of  a present  which  is not a transition, but  in which  time stands still and  has come  to  a stop. For  this notion  defines the  present  in which  he himself is writing  history. Historicism gives the "eter\'ad nal'' image of the past; historical materialism supplies a unique experience  with  the  past. The  historical  materialist leaves it  to others to be drained by the whore called "Once  upon a time" in historicism's borde1lo. He remains in control  of his powers, man enough  to blast open the continuum  of history.\
\
\
\fi140533\li2900\ql
\fs16 XVII\
\
\fi306\li2600\qj
\fs20 Historicism rightly culminates in universal history. Materia\}.. istic  historiography  differs from  it  as to  method  more  clearly than from any other kind. Universal history has no theoretical armature. Its method is additive; it musters a mass of data to fill the  homogeneous, empty  time. Materialistic  historiography,  on the other  hand, is based on a constructive  principle. Thinking in\'ad volves not  only  the flow of  thoughts,  but  their  arrest  as well. Where  thinking suddenly stops in a configuration  pregnant  with tensions, it gives that configuration a shock, by which it crystal-\
\
\fi140533\sl-216\slmult1\li2800\ql
\fs18 \bullet  Who  would  have believed it! we are told  that  new Joshuas\
\sl-192\slmult1\li2920\fs16 at  \fs18 the foot  \fs16 of  \fs18 every tower, \fs16 as \fs18 though irritated  with\
time itself, :fired \fs16 at \fs18 the dials \f5\fs16 in \f7\fs18 order  to stop the  day.\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li2960\f4\i\fs16 z62\
\li2860\qj
\f7\i0\fs22 lizes into a monad. A historical materialit\
\sl-240\slmult1
subject only where he encounters it as a monad. In this structure\
he recognizes the sign of a Messianic cessation of happening, or,\
\sl216\slmult1\li2820\qc
put differently, a revolutionary chance \f5 in \f7 the fight for  the op\'ad pressed past. He takes cognizance of it in order to blast a specific era out of the homogeneous course of history-blasting a specific life out of the era or a specific work out of the lifework. \f5\fs20 As \f7\fs22 a result of this method the lifework is preserved \fs24 in \fs22 this work and at the same time canceled \bullet ; \f5\fs20 in \f7\fs22 the lifework, the era; and \f5\fs20 in \f7\fs22 the era, the entire course of history. The nourishlng fruit of the \fs24 his\'ad \fs22 torically understood contains time as a precious but tasteless seed.\
\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li3160\ql
\fs16 XV I II\
\
\fi306\sl216\slmult1\li2860\qj
\fs22 "In relation to the history of organic life on earth," writes a modern biologist, "the paltry fifty millennia of \f4\i\fs24 homo sapiens \f7\i0\fs22 con\'ad stitute something like two seconds at the close of a twenty-four\'ad hour day. On this scale, the history of civilized mankind would fill one fifth\
\fi140533\sl-240\slmult1\li2880which, as a model of Messianic time, comprises the entire history of mankind \f5\fs20 in \f7\fs22 an enormous abridgment, coincides exactly with the stature which the history of mankind has in the universe.\
\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li3180\ql
\f5\fs16 A\
\
\fi306\li2880\qj
\f7\fs22 Historicism contents itself with establishing a causal connec\'ad tion between various moments in history. But no fact  that is a cause is for that very reason historical. It became historical post\'ad humously, as it were, through events that may be separated from it by thousands of years. A historian who takes this as his point of departure stops telling the sequence of events like the beads \f4\i of  \f7\i0 a rosary. Instead, he grasps the constellation which his own era has formed with a definite earlier one. Thus  he establishes a conception of the present as the "time of the now" which is shot through with chips of Messianic time.\
\
\fi243\sl168\slmult1\li2860\fs18 \bullet  The  Hegelian  term \f4\i aufheben \f7\i0 in its threefold  meaning: to  preserve, to elevate, to cancel.\
\
\fi140533\sl240\slmult1\li3080\ql
\f4\i\fs20 llluminatiO'TlS\
\
\
\li3000\f5\i0\fs16 B\
\
\fi294\li2700\qj
\f7\fs20 The soothsayers who found out from time what it \fs22 had \fs20 in store certainly   did  not  experience  time  as  either   homogeneous  or empty. Anyone  who keeps this in mind will perhaps get an idea of how past times were experienced in remembrance-namely, in just the same way. We know that the Jews were prohibited from investigating the future. The Torah  and the prayers instmct  them in remembrance, however. This stripped  the future  of its magic, to which all those succumb  who turn  to the soothsayers for  en\'ad lightenment. This does not imply, however, that for the Jews the future  turned  into homogeneous, empty  time. For every second of  time  was the  strait  gate  through  which  the  Messiah might enter.\
\
\
\
\fi140533\li3200\ql
\f4\i\fs24 Editors ?Jote\
\
\
\
\fi266\li2860\qj
\f7\i0\fs20 Benjamin,s work  consists of two books on German  literature-his dissertation on "The Concept  of Art  Criticism in German  Romanti\'ad cism" \f4\i (Der Begriff der Kunstkritik in der deutschen Romantik, \f7\i0 Bern,\
\fi140533\sl-216\slmult1\li28801910) and "The Origin  of  German  Tragedy" \f4\i (Der Ursprung des\
\li2860deutschen Trauerspiels, \f7\i0 Berlin, 192.8)-of  two  books of  general  re\'ad\
\li2880flections \f5 in \f7 the form of short essays or aphorisms-"One-Way Street'\bullet \
\fi22\sl216\slmult1
\f4\i (Einbahnstrasse, \f7\i0 Berlin, 1918) and "A Berlin Childhood around 1900" \f4\i (Berliner  Kindheit  um Neunzehnhundert, \f7\i0 written   during  the  late thirties and published posthumously, Frankfurt,  1950)-and  of a great number  of  literary  and  critical  essays, book  reviews, and commen\'ad taries.\
\fi272
The  chief purpose of this  collection is to convey  the importance of Benjamin as a literary  critic. It contains the full-length essays with two very regrettable exceptions-the study of "Goethe's  \f4\i Elective \fs24 Af\'ad \fs20 finities,.  \f7\i0 (published  \f5 in  \f7 Hugo   von  Hofmannsthal's   \f4\i Neue  Deutsche Beitriige \f7\i0 in two instalments, 1914 and 192.5) and the article on "Karl Kraus" \f5 (in \f7 the \f4\i Frankfurter Zeitung, \f7\i0 1931). Since Karl Kraus is still practically  unknown   in  English-speaking  countries  and  since  the Goethe essay consists to a large extent of a polemic against Friedrich Gundolf's  \f4\i Goethe, \f7\i0 equally  unknown,  these  two  essays wodd have needed so many explanatory  notes that  the thrust  of  the text  itself would have Leen ruined.\
\fi266
The  translation  of the text follows the two-volume German  edi\'ad tion of Benjamin's writings which. under  the tide \f4\i Schriften, \f7\i0 was ed\'ad ited and introduced by Theodor  W. Adorno and published by the Suhrkamp Verlag \f5 in \f7 1955. The  tide of the present collection, but not its content, is identical with the tide of a selection from the \f4\i Schriften, \f7\i0 published by Suhrkamp in 1961; Benjamin himself had approved  this tide for an earlier selection of some of his works. The  German  text \f5 is \f7 chiefly drawn  from  the  published texts in various magazines and newspapers. Professor  Adorno  points out \f5 in \f7 his Introduction  that  it is not definitive: \f5 in \f7 the few instances where the original manuscripts could be consulted, it turned out that Benjamints handwriting  was difficult to read, and as for the cypescripts and printed newspaper or magazine copies, they "unquestionably  contain numerous errors.''  In the only case in which I was able to compare the original manuscript\
\
\fi140533\sl240\slmult1\li3040\f4\i Illuminations\
\fi5\li2680\f7\i0 with the printed text, "Theses on the Philosophy of History,, which Benjamin gave me shortly  before his death, \f5 I \f7 found many important variants.                                                                           \'b7\
\fi277\li2660As I mentioned \f5 in \f7 the Introduction  (Note  7), manuscripts, type\'ad scripts, and  reprints  of  Benjamin,s work  are scattered.  Most  manu\'ad scripts  are \f5 in  \f7 the  possession of  Professor  Theodor   W.  Adorno  in Frankfurt;  a number of letters and manuscripts are in the East Ger\'ad man Zentralarchiv  in Potsdam. Professor Gershom Scholem in Jeru\'ad salem possesses a collection of reprints and carbon copies of type\'ad scripts.\
\fi260\li2640The  two-volume \f4\i Schriften \f7\i0 does not contain the  collected  works. Large portions of what Benjamm considered his main oeuvre, "Paris, the Capital of the Nineteenth  Century," seem to have been finished \fs22 in \fs20 manuscript,  and  a  number  of  his essays and  reviews, published during  his lifetime, have not  been reprinted.  Two  volumes of  let... ters, edited  by  T. \fs22 W. \fs20 Adorno  and G. Scholem, were  published in\
\fi28
\fs16 1966;  \f5 a \f7\fs20 collection  of essays on  Brecht, which  includes several  pre\'ad viously   unpublished   articles   and  notes   on   "Conversations   with Brecht," also appeared  in \fs16 1966  \fs20 under  the editorship  of Rolf  iiede\'ad mann. Finally, a collection of German letters, written  between  \fs16 1783\
\fi140533
\fs20 and \fs16 1833, \fs20 with commentaries and first published under the pseudonym\
\sl-240\slmult1
Detlev  Holz  with  the  title  \f4\i Deutsche Menscben \f5\i0 in \f7 Switzerland  in\
\sl-216\slmult1\li2660\fs16 1936,  \fs20 has been reissued \f5 in \f7 Germany.\
\sl-240\slmult1\li2900\ql
The  original sources of the essays published in \f5\fs22 this \f7\fs20 collection \f5\fs16 are\
\sl-216\slmult1\li2640\qj
\f7\fs20 as follows:\
\sl240\slmult1\li3000"Unpacking  My Library":  \f4\i Literarische Welt, \f7\i0\fs16 1931.\
\fs20 "The  Task of the Translator":  his introduction  to his translation\
\sl-240\slmult1\li3080\f5 of \f7 Baudelaire's \f4\i Tableaux  parisiens, \f7\i0 Heidelberg,  \fs16 1913.\
\sl240\slmult1\li3000\ql
\fs20 "The  Storyteller":  \f4\i Orient und Okzident, \f7\i0\fs16 1936.\
\qj
\fs20 "Franz  Kafka',: \f4\i ]iidische Rundscbau, \f7\i0\fs18 1934.\
\li3100\fs20 "Some Reflections on Kafka't: the text is based upon a letter  to Scholem, dated  Paris, June  n, \fs18 1938; \fs20 now  published in  \f4\i Briefe, \f7\i0 II, 756-64.\
\li3000\ql
\bullet 'What  Is Epic Theater?":  \f4\i Mass und Wert, \f7\i0\fs16 1939.\
\fs20 "On Some Motifs in Baudelaire": \f4\i Zeitschrift fur Sozialforschung,\
\sl-216\slmult1\li3080\qj
\f7\i0 VIII,  \fs14 1-2., \fs16 1939.\
\sl240\slmult1\li3000\ql
\fs20 "The  hnage of Proust":  \f4\i Literarische Welt,  1929.\
\
\li2940Editor's Note\
\li2920\f7\i0 "The  Work  of Art \f5 in  \f7 the Age of Mechanical Reproduction":\
\sl-240\slmult1\li3000\f4\i Zeitscbrift  fiir Sozialforscbung, \f7\i0 V,  \fs14 1, \fs20 1936.\
\sl240\slmult1\li2900"Theses on  the Philosophy of  History":  completed \f5 in  \f7 spring\
\sl-264\slmult1\li30201940, first published \fs22 in \f4\i\fs20 Neue Rundschau, \f7\i0 61, 3, 1950.\
\
\
\
\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li2920\f4\i\fs36 Jndex  of  J\\lames\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\li2880\f7\i0\fs20 Adorno,  Theodor Wiesengmnd,  \fs18 1903- , \fs20 German  professor of  phil\'ad\
\li3160osophy and sociology, \f4\i\fs12 1, \f7\i0\fs18 1o-13,  15, 17, \fs20 p., 53, \f4\i\fs16 165 \f7\i0\fs20 f.\
\sl-216\slmult1\li2880Anselm of Canterbury, St., \fs18 1033-1Io9, \fs20 Scholastic philosopher, u8\
Arnheim,  Rudolf,   \fs18 1904-  , \fs20 German-born   American  educator,   psy-\
\sl-240\slmult1\li3160chologist, and  \f5\fs16 art \f7\fs20 historian, \fs18 :t3o, 136 \fs20 n., \fs18 24\
\sl-216\slmult1\li2880\fs20 Amobius, ca. \fs18 A.D. 300, \fs20 early Christian apologist, \fs18 13 \f5\fs12 I\
\f7\fs20 Amou:x, Alexandre, \fs18 1884- , \fs20 French novelist, essayist, playwright, 22.7\
\sl-240\slmult1
Arp,  Hans, \fs18 1887-1966,  \fs20 Alsatian sculptor,  painter, poet, \fs18 138\
\sl-216\slmult1
\fs20 Atget, Eugene, \fs18 r8s6-1917, \fs20 French photographer,  \fs18 :u6\
\sl-240\slmult1
\fs20 Aurevilly, Jules Barbey d', \fs18 18o8-r889, \fs20 French man of letters, \fs18 184\
\
\
\sl240\slmult1
\fs20 Bachofen, Johann Jakob, \fs18 x8xs-r887, \fs20 Swiss philosopher and archaeolo\'ad\
\sl-240\slmult1\li3120\qc
gist, famous author  of \f4\i Mutterrecbt und Urreligion, 6z, \f7\i0\fs18 130 \f5\fs20 f.\
\sl-216\slmult1\li2880\ql
\f7 Balzac, Honore  de, \fs18 \bullet 799-1850,  64, 208\
\fs20 Barbier, Henri Auguste, \fs18 18os-188z, \fs20 French  poet and satirist, \fs18 r68, 171,\
\li3180195\
\sl-192\slmult1\li2880\fs20 Barres, Maurice, \fs18 1861-1913, \fs20 French writer  and publicist, \fs18 109\
\sl-216\slmult1
\fs20 Baudelaire, Charles, \fs18 1821-1867,  \fs20 4t u, p, 54t \fs18 xss-zoo, \f4\i\fs12 Ul\
\f7\i0\fs20 Beethoven, Ludwig van, \fs18 17Jo-1827, \fs20 u1\
Benoist Mckhin,\
\li3160of letters, \fs14 2. \fs16 t \f5\fs12 1\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li2980\f4\i\fs20 Index of Names\
\li2620\f7\i0 Bergson, Henri,  1859-1941, French  philosopher, 157 \fs22 f., \fs20 r6o, 178, 18o,\
\sl-216\slmult1\li2920\fs18 ISs, \fs20 199\
\li2620Bertram, Ernst,  1884- , German  philologist, literary  historian,  and\
\li2880essayist, member of the George circle, \f5\fs16 9\
\f7\fs20 Bibesco, Princess Marthe,  1887- ,  novelist and  playwright,  Proust's friend,  :zo8\
Blanqui, Louis Auguste, r8os-r881, French revolutionary socialist and publicist, :z6o\
\sl240\slmult1\li2620Bloch, Ernst, r88s- , German philosopher and writer, 53\
Borchardt,  Rudolf, 1877-1945\bullet  German poet and essayist, 9, 34 f., 81\
\sl-216\slmult1\li2600Borne, Ludwig, :r786-r837, German  publicist and satirist, 178\
Bos, Charles du, x881-1939, French literary  critic, essayist, translator,\
\li288010\
\sl240\slmult1\li2600Brecht, Bertolt, 1898-1956, German playwright  and poet, z, ro, 14 f.,\
\sl-240\slmult1\li28804St \f4\i 52 \f7\i0 tf., I47-IS4t 246, \f4\i\fs18 :z.66\
\sl-192\slmult1\li2600\f7\i0\fs20 Breton, Andre,  1896-1966, French surrealist  writer,  249\
\sl-240\slmult1
Brod, \fs22 Max, \fs20 1884-1968, Prague-hom German novelist, \f4\i\fs18 53, \f7\i0\fs20 n6,  ur, u6\
\
\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li2880Calderon  de  la  Barca, Pedro,   x6oo-168r, Spain's  greatest  dramatic author, 149\
\sl-216\slmult1\li2620Chaplin, Charles, r889- , 250\
Cicero, Marcus Tullius, ro6-43 B.c., Roman orator, statesman, and phil\'ad\
\li2880osopher, \f5\fs14 2\
\li2620\f7\fs20 Claudel, Paul, x868-1955, French  poet, dramatist, and diplomat, 163\
\li2600Clermont-Tonnerre, ltlisabeth (de Gramont), r875- , French author,\
\sl240\slmult1\li2780biographer of Proust, 205 ff., 209\
\sl-216\slmult1\li2600Cocteau, Jean, r889-1\'a23, French poet and man of letters, \fs14 103\
\
\
\
\sl240\slmult1
\fs20 Daguerre, Louis, 1789-r8p, French painter and inventor  of  the da\'ad\
\sl-216\slmult1\li2860guerreotype, 186\
\li2600Daudet, Leon, t867-1941, French  journalist and writer,  2o6\
Delvau, Alfred, 18zs-:r867, French writer,  author  of studies of Paris\
\li2880and a dictionary  of French slang, 167\
\li2600Derain, Andre,  r88o-1954, French Postimpressionist painter, 138\
Desbordes-Valmore, Marceline, 178s-\bullet 8s9, French  poet,  \fs14 1$1\
\sl-240\slmult1
\fs20 Dietz.gen, Josef, 19th-century  socialist, \f4\i\fs22 z \fs20 59\
\sl-192\slmult1
\f7\i0 Dietzgen, Wilhelm, 19th-century  socialist, \fs14 160\
\sl240\slmult1\li3120\fs20 Dilthey, Wilhelm, 1833-1911, German   philosopher  and  historian  of ideas, \f4\i\fs18 rs6\
\sl-216\slmult1\li2840\f7\i0\fs20 Dostoevsky, Fedor Mikhailovich,  r821-r881, 92, 106, 124\
\sl240\slmult1
Dreyer, Carl Th., 1889-1968, Danish film director, \fs18 246\
\sl-240\slmult1
\fs20 Duhamel,  Georges,  1884-French novelist,  critic,  playwright, 238 \f5 f.\
\sl240\slmult1\li3120\f7 Dujardin, Edouard, \fs18 t861-1949, \fs20 French  symbolist  poet, essayist, literary critic\fs18 168\
\sl-216\slmult1\li2840\fs20 Durtain, Luc,  \fs18 rSRr-1959,  \fs20 French   poet. essayist, novelist,  \fs18 148 \f5\fs20 f.\
\
\
\sl240\slmult1
\f7 Eddington, Arthur Stanley,  t882-1944. English  astronomer and  phys\'ad\
\li3120icist,  142\
\li2840Edison, Thomas, \fs18 1847-1931,  250\
\fs20 Engels,  Friedrich,  J8zo-t895,   German   socialist  and  social  historian,\
\sl-216\slmult1\li3140\fs18 166 \fs20 f., \fs18 171\
\sl240\slmult1\li2840\fs20 Ensor,  James,  r86o-1949\bullet   Belgian  painter  and  etcher,   \fs18 174\
\
\
\sl-216\slmult1\li3120\fs20 Fernandez Ardavin, Louis,  1891- , Spanish  poet,  dramatist,  translator of French  literature, \fs14 210,  2. \fs20 n\
\sl240\slmult1\li2840Flaubert, Gustave,  J811-r88o,  French  novelist,  \fs18 208, \fs20 z56\
Fourier, Fran  ois,\
\sl-192\slmult1\li3120\f4\i 2.59\
\sl-216\slmult1\li2840\f7\i0 France,  Anatole,  \fs18 1844-1924,  \fs20 French  poet,  novelist,  satirist,  \fs18 41, \fs20 6o, \f4\i 6z,\
\li3140\f7\i0 198, \fs18 105\
\sl240\slmult1\li2840\fs20 Freud, Sigmund,  r8s6-r939, \fs18 16o-r63,235\
\sl-216\slmult1
\fs20 Fustel de Coulanges, Numa Denis, \fs18 183o-1889, \fs20 French  historian, \fs18 :2.56\
\
\
\sl240\slmult1
\fs20 GaUrreo, \fs18 1564-1642, 148\
\sl-240\slmult1
\fs20 Gance, Abel,  r889-  , French  actor,  film  director, and  author,  \f5\fs16 ::u \f4\i\fs20 z  \f7\i0 f.,\
\sl240\slmult1\li3120\f4\i\fs14 117\
\sl-216\slmult1\li2840\f7\i0\fs20 Gautier, Theophile, r8r t-r872, French  art and drama critic, \fs18 163\
\sl240\slmult1\li3100\fs20 George, Stefan,   \fs18 1868-1933,   \fs20 German   poet,  translator  of  Baudelaire, Shakespeare,  Dante,  and contemporary poets, 9 f., \fs18 76, \fs20 So, \fs18 196\
\sl-216\slmult1\li2840\fs20 Gerstacker, Friedrich, \fs18 1816-1871, \fs20 German author of adventure stories,\
\sl-264\slmult1\li3100\f4\i\fs28 ss\
\sl-168\slmult1\li2840\f7\i0\fs20 Ciide,J\\ndre, I86g-I9JI,lo, \f4\i\fs18 164\
\sl240\slmult1
\f7\i0\fs20 Glassbrenner, Adolf,  \fs18 I8Io-r876, \fs20 German satirist, \fs18 197\
\sl-216\slmult1
\fs20 Goethe, Johann  Wolfgang von,  1749-18p, 3, 7 ff., u, 14, 17, 46 \f5 f.,\
\sl240\slmult1\li3100\f7\fs18 So, 123, 149, \fs20 179, \fs18 187 n., 189 n., \fs20 199\
\sl-216\slmult1\li3000Gogol,  Nikolai,  t8o9-t8p, Russian  author   of  realistic stories  and plays, 197\
\sl240\slmult1\li2740Goldstein, Moritz, r88o- , German-Jewish writer an<J  journalist, 30 f.,\
\li3020\f5\fs16 34\
\sl-216\slmult1\li2740\f7\fs20 Goncourt,  Edmond  ( J82:t-1896) and Jules ( r8Jo-I8?o), French nov\'ad\
\li3000elists and cultural historiansbrothers, 208\
Gorky,  Maxim,  t868-I9J6,  Rustiian writer  of short  stories,  novels, plays, biographies, 1or\
\sl240\slmult1\li2720Gotthelf, Jeremias, 1797-1854\bullet  Swiss prose writer, 85 f., 103\
\sl-216\slmult1\li2660\'b7 Gozlan, Leon, r8o6-r866, French playwright, 167\
\sl240\slmult1\li2740Grabbe, Christian Dietrich, r8or-t836, German dramatist, 149\
\sl-216\slmult1\li2720Graves, Robert Ranke, 1895- , English poet and novelist, 152\
Greco,  El, 1548?-t614, uz\
\li3000Grimm, Albert  Ludwig, 19th-century  Gennan  editor  of legends and fairy tales, 63\
\sl-240\slmult1\li2720Grimme, Hubert,  t864-1942, German orientalist and art historian, \f4\i 145\
\sl-192\slmult1
\f7\i0 Groethuysen,  Bernhard, I879-1946, sociologist and cultural historian,\
\sl240\slmult1\li3000127\
\sl-216\slmult1\li2720Gryphius, Andreas, r6r6-uS64, German baroque poet and playwright,\
\sl240\slmult1\li3000149\
\sl-216\slmult1\li2720Gundolf, Friedrich,  r88o-I931, German literary  historian, member of\
\li3000the George circle, 9\
\li2720Guys,  Constantin,  r8o2-1892, Dutch-hom painter  and illustrator  of\
\li2980the French scene, p, 163, 191\
\
\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li2720Haas,  Willy,  1891- ,  German  drama  and  literary  critic,  editor  of\
\sl-240\slmult1\li3000\f4\i Literariscbe Welt, \f7\i0 117 f., 131\
\sl-192\slmult1\li2720Hamann,  Johann  Georg,  173C>-1788,  German  writer  and theologian,\
\sl-216\slmult1\li300037t54\
\sl-192\slmult1\li2720Hamson, Knut, I859-1952, Norwegian writer, 127\
\sl-216\slmult1
Hauff, Wilhelm, J8m-r817, German poet and story writer,  \fs12 109\
\fs20 Haussmann, Baron Georges  Eugene,  I8<>9-r89I, French  prefect  and\
\li3000town planner, \fs18 19\
\li2720\fs20 Hebel, Johann Peter, 176o-r816, Swisswborn Gennan  poet, editor  and\
\li3000author of almanac stories, \f4\i\fs18 Bs \f7\i0\fs20 f., \f4\i\fs18 94 \f7\i0\fs20 f., toi,  106\
\li2720Hegel, Georg  Wilhelm  Friedrich,   I77o-183I, German  philosopher,\
\sl240\slmult1\li298067, 167, 144 \f5 f.\
\sl-216\slmult1\li2720\f7 Heidegger, Martin, 1887- , Gennan  philosopher, \f4\i 35, \f7\i0 41, 46, \f4\i 55\
\sl-192\slmult1
\f7\i0 Heimann, Moritz, J868-1925, German editor and writer,  \fs12 100\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li2840\fs20 Heine,  Heinrich,  1797-I856, German  lyric  poet  and  literary  critic,\
\li310013, IS6, 174\
\sl-216\slmult1\li2840Herodotus, sth century B.c., Greek historian, 89\
\sl240\slmult1
Hessel, Franz, German translator and editor, 4\
\sl-216\slmult1
Hirsch, Emil, antiquarian book dealer and collector, 64 f.\
\sl-240\slmult1
Hoffmann, \fs22 E. T. \fs20 A., 1776-18:u, German  music critic, composer, and\
\sl-216\slmult1\li3100writer  of fantastic tales, 173, 197\
\li2840Hofmannsthal,  Hugo  voc,  t874-1929, Austrian  poet, playwright, and\
\sl-240\slmult1\li3100essayist, \fs12 2 \fs20 f., 7 f., 9, 16, \fs12 11, \fs20 46, \f4\i 2.65\
\sl-192\slmult1\li2840\f7\i0 Holderlin,  Friedrich,  I77o-1843, German  poet, translator  of PindaJ,",\
\sl-216\slmult1\li3100Sophocles, and Latin poets, 76, 78, \fs18 So \f5\fs20 f.\
\sl-240\slmult1\li2840\f7 Holz, Dedev, pseudonym \f5 of \f7 Benjamin, \f4\i 2.66\
\sl-216\slmult1
\f7\i0 Homer, ancient Greek  p t,\
Horkheirner,  Max, 1895- , professor of philosophy and sociology, 10\
\li3120Houssaye, Arsene, I81s-x896, French novelist, literary  critic, journal- ist, 165\
\li2840Hugo, Victor,  r8o1-188s, French poet and novelist, rs6, 161, x66, 168\
\sl240\slmult1\li3120Humboldt,  Baron Wilhelm  von, 1767-1835, German  philologist and diplomat, 37, 54\
\sl-216\slmult1\li2840Huxley, Aldous, \bullet 894-1963, English novelist and essayist, 147 f.\
\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li2860Ivens, Joris, 1898- , Dutch film director, 231\
\
\
\sl-192\slmult1\li2840Joubert, Joseph, 1754-1824, French moralist, 179\
\sl-288\slmult1
\fs24 Jung, \fs32 c. \fs20 G., I87S-I96I, Swiss psychiatrist, 156\
\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li2860Kafka, Fnnz, 1883-1924, \fs14 2 \fs20 f., 17, 19, 2.6, 19-34, 36, 39 f., 45, 49, 53 ff.,\
\sl-216\slmult1\li3100\f5\fs12 I \f7\fs20 I-14\}\
\li2860Kant. Immanuel,  1724-1804, 4, 41, 198\
Keller,  Gottfried,  t819-189o, Swiss lyric  and  epic  poet  and  prose\
\li3120writer, \f5\fs18 255\
\f7\fs20 Kierkegaard,  Soren,  18IJ-r8ss,  Danish  philosopher  and :writer  on theology, 128\
\li2860Kipling, Rudyard,   t865-1936, 101\
Klages, Ludwig,  1872-1956, German  philosopher,  graphologist,  and\
\sl-240\slmult1\li3120cultural historian,  \f4\i 56\
\li2860\f7\i0 Klee, Paul, x879-1940, Swiss painter, 13, 143, \f4\i 257\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li2720\f7\i0 Kraft,  Werner,  1896- , German-Jewish  poet, essayist, literary  histo\'ad\
\sl-216\slmult1\li3000rian, and biographer, 2.0, \f5\fs12 I \f7\fs20 20,  39\
\sl-240\slmult1\li2720Kraus, Karl, r874-1936, Austrian journalist, poet, and critic, 19, \f4\i\fs18 3l \f7\i0\fs20 tf.,\
\li300037 f., 1591 \f4\i\fs12 200, \f7\i0\fs20 261, 165\
\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li2720Lamartine, Alphonse de,  I77o-I869, French  poet and statesman, rs6,\
\sl-216\slmult1\li3020161\
\sl-240\slmult1\li2720Lao-tse, ca. 604-53 r B.c., Chinese philosopher, r 26\tab ,\
\sl-216\slmult1
La Rochefoucauld, Due Frans:ois de, r6r3-168o, French moralist, 18\
Lassalle, Ferdinand,  r82.s-r864, German socialist and publicist, \f4\i 259 \f7\i0 n. Lawrence, T. E., \bullet 888-1935, English archaeologist and writer,  \fs14 151\
\fs20 Leger, Ales\
Lenz, Jakob  Michael Reinhold,  1751-1791. German  lyric  poet  and\
\sl240\slmult1\li3000dramatist, 149\
\sl-216\slmult1\li2720Leonardo da Vinci, r4sz-rsr9, 2.49\
Leskov, Nikolai, I8Jr-r895., Russian novelist, 41, 83-ro9\
Lessing, Gotthold  Ephraim, 172.9-I78r, German  dramatist and critic,\
\sl-240\slmult1\li3000\f8 l3\
\sl-192\slmult1\li2720\f7 Lichtenberg, Georg Christoph, 1742-1799\f5\fs8 1  \f7\fs20 German  physicist and sati\'ad\
\sl-216\slmult1\li3000rist, \f5\fs18 23\
\li2720\f7\fs20 Liebknecht,  Karl, 1871-1919, German  socialist leader, co-founder  of\
\sl-240\slmult1\li3000the German Spartacus, \f4\i z6o \f7\i0 n.\
\sl-192\slmult1\li2740Liebknecht,  Wilhelm,   r826-19oo, German  socialist,  journalist, and\
\sl-240\slmult1\li3000politician, \f4\i 259 \f7\i0 n.\
\sl-192\slmult1\li2740Lindbergh, Charles Augustus, 1902- , 152\
\sl-216\slmult1
Lotze, Hermann, I8I7-t88I, Gennan  philosopher, 253\
Lukacs, Georg,  \f5\fs16 rBSs- , \f7\fs20 Hungarian  Marxist literary  historian, 99, 113\
\sl-240\slmult1
Lurine, Louis, t8r6-r86o,  French writer, editor  of \f4\i Les Rues de Paris\
\sl-216\slmult1\li3020\f7\i0 (1844), 167\
\li2740Luther, Ada,\
Luxemburg, Rosa, I87o-1919, German  socialist associated with  Karl\
\li3000Liebknecht, 160 n.\
\li2740Lyser, Johann Peter, t8o3-187o, German poet, painter. illustrator, and\
\li3000musician, 63\
\
\
\li2740Malebranche, Nicolas de, I638-1715, French  metaphysician, \fs18 134\
\sl-264\slmult1
\fs20 Mallarme, Srephane, 1841-1898, French symbolist poet,  \f4\i\fs28 so, \fs20 55, \f7\i0 77, u4\
\sl-192\slmult1
Mann, Klaus, 19o6-I949, German  playwright,  journalist, and essayist,\
\sl240\slmult1\li3020\fs12 10\
\
\li3080\f4\i\fs14 274\
\
\li2880\f7\i0\fs20 Marinetti,  Emilio,   1876-\bullet 944, Italian  poet  and  writer,   founder   of\
\sl-216\slmult1\li3140Futurism, 141 \f5 f.\
\sl240\slmult1\li2880\f7 Marx, Karl, r8I8-I88J, u, r66, 17;, 196, 117, :z;4, \f4\i\fs16 159 \f7\i0\fs20 n.\
\sl-216\slmult1
Merck,  Johann  Heinrich,  174\bullet -\bullet 791; Gennan literary  critic,  writer,\
\li3160143\
\sl-192\slmult1\li2880Metchnikoff, Lev Ilyich, 1838-1888, Russian historian and anthropolo\
\sl-264\slmult1\li3160gist,  author   of  \f4\i La  Civilisatirm et  les  grands  f/.euves historiques\
\sl-216\slmult1
\f7\i0 ( r889), 113\
\li2900Michelet, Jules, 1798-18?4, French historian, 208\
\sl-240\slmult1
Missac, PierreFrench essayist, collaborator of \f4\i Critique, \fs14 20, \fs20 53 \f5\i0 f.\
\sl-192\slmult1
\f7 Moliere (Jean  Baptiste Poquelin),  r622-167], French  playwright,  154\
\sl-216\slmult1
Monet, Claude, I84o-1916, French Impressionist painter, 197\
\sl240\slmult1
Montaigne, Michel de, 1533-1591, French essayist and moralist, 18, 90\
\sl-216\slmult1
Montesquieu, Baron de La Brede et de, 1689-1755, French moralist, 18\
\sl216\slmult1\li3160\qj
Montesquiou-Fezensac, Robert de, I855-I921, French  poet and essay- ist, model for Count Charlus \f5 in \f7 Proust's  \f4\i Remembrance \fs24 of \fs20 Things Past, \fs14 106\
\sl-216\slmult1\li2900\ql
\f7\i0\fs20 Morgenstern,  Soma, 1896- , German-Jewish   journalist and novelist,\
\sl-288\slmult1\li3180\f4\i\fs28 us\
\sl-168\slmult1\li2900\f7\i0\fs20 Musset, Alfred de, r8ro-t857, French poet and playwright, 161\
\
\
\sl240\slmult1
Nadar  (Felix Tournachon), r8zo-r910, French  writer  and caricatur-\
\li3160ist, 163\
\sl-216\slmult1\li2900Napoleon Bonaparte, 1769-I811, \fs16 123\
\fs20 Nargeot, Oara, nee Thenon, 1819-?, French portrait painter, 163\
\sl240\slmult1
Neher, Carola, \bullet 90o-1936, German actress, 151\
\sl-216\slmult1
Nietzsche, Friedrich,  r844-19oo, 13, :z6o\
Nodier, Charles, t78o-1844, French Romantic man of letters, 86\
\li3160\qj
Navalis (Baron Friedrich von Hardenberg), I771-18or, German lyric poet of the early Romantic period, 188\
\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li2900\ql
Origen, \fs14 A.D.  \fs20 t8;?-?154, Greek Father of the Church, 103\
\sl-216\slmult1
Ortega  y  Gasser, Jose,  r88J-I9SS, Spanish  essayist and  philosopher,\
\sl240\slmult1\li3180\f8\fs12 208\
\
\
\li2900\f7\fs20 Pannwitz, Rudolf, r88t- , German philosopher, 8o\
\sl-216\slmult1
Pascal, Blaise, 1623-t66.z, French mathematician and philosopher, 18,\
\sl240\slmult1\li316098,  n8\
\sl-216\slmult1\li2940Paul, Jean  (Jean  Paul Friedrich  Richter),  I763-I815,  Gennan  poet and prose writer, 43, 61\
\li2660Peguy, Charles, x87J-I9I4, French poet and publicist, \f5\fs18 :u\
\f7\fs20 Pierre-Quint, Leon, 1895- , French literary critic, Proust scholar, \f4\i\fs18 zo6,\
\sl-192\slmult1\li2940\f5\i0 219\
\sl-264\slmult1\li2660\f7\fs20 Pirandello,  Luigi,  I867-1936, ItaHan novelist and dramatist,  \f4\i\fs26 us, \f7\i0\fs20 :z:zg,\
\sl240\slmult1\li2940\f8\fs14 231\
\sl-216\slmult1\li2660\f7\fs20 Plato, 41.7?-347 n.c., 149, 1.11\
Plutarch,  \fs12 A.D.   \fs20 46?-? 110, Greek  biographer, 138\
\sl240\slmult1
Poe, Edgar Allan, t809-1849, ror, 109, 161, 17D-176, 178, 196 f., 199\
\sl-216\slmult1
Pontmartin,  Henri  Comte de, 1844-1916, French man of letters, 163\
\sl-240\slmult1
Proust,  Marcel, I8?1-I9U, 7, 16 f., 19, 157-I6o, \f4\i\fs18 169 \f7\i0\fs20 f., t8o-r8J, 187 \fs22 f.,\
\sl240\slmult1\li2960\fs20 199-215\
\sl-240\slmult1\li2660Pudovkin, Vsevolod, t893-195J, Soviet Russian \f5 1ilm \f7 director  \f4\i (Storm\
\li2940Over Asia), \f7\i0 247\
\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li2660Ranke, Leopold von, 1795-r886, German historian; \f4\i 255\
\sl-216\slmult1
\f7\i0 Raphael, 14B3-I51o, 145 \f5 f. \tab .\
\f7 Rathenau,  Walther, 1867-I921, Gennart-Jewish  industrialist, econo\'ad\
\li2940mist, and politician, 33 \f5 ff.\
\li2680\f7 Regnier, Henri de, r864-I936, French poet, novelist, critic, :zo8\
\li2660Reik,  Theodor,  r888- ,  Austrian-born  American  psychologist  and\
\li2940author, 16o\
\sl240\slmult1\li2680Reinhardt, Max, 187J-1943, Austrian theatrical producer, 228\
Rembrandt,  r6o6-x669,  222, 2.43\
\sl-216\slmult1
Renan, Joseph Ernest, I81J-I891, French historian and philologist, 208\
Riegl, Alois, I858-r9os, Austrian art historian, :zu\
Riemann, Georg  Friedrich  Bernhard, 18:z6-r866, German mathemati-\
\sl240\slmult1\li2940cian, \f4\i\fs18 rso\
\sl-216\slmult1\li2680\f7\i0\fs20 Rilke, Rainer Maria, 1875-1926, German poet and prose writer, 238\
Rimbaud,  Arthur,  1854-1891, French  symbolist  poet,\f5\fs12 I \f4\i\fs22 s6\
\sl-240\slmult1
\f7\i0\fs20 Ritter, Johann Wilhelm, German 19th-century publisher, \f4\i 65\
\sl-192\slmult1
\f7\i0 Riviere, Jacques,  t886-1925, French  novelist, journalist, and literary\
\sl240\slmult1\li2940critic, 7, 164, 113\
\sl-216\slmult1\li2680Robespierre, Maximilien, I758-1794, French revolutionist, 161\
Romains, Jules, 1885- , French poet, novelist, playwright, 195\
Rosenthal, Jacques, antiquarian book dealer, 67\
Rosenzweig,  Franz,  I886-1919, Jewish  philosopher  and  theologian,\
\sl240\slmult1\li2960\fs12 UO, Ijl\
\
\sl264\slmult1\li3200\fs20 Roswitha of  Gandersheim, roth century cler, and author of Latin plays, \fs18 149\
\sl-216\slmult1\li2780\qc
\fs20 -Rougemont, Denis de, \fs18 1906- , \fs20 Swiss essayist and writer, n8\
\sl240\slmult1\li2920\ql
Rychner, Max,  \fs18 r897-1\'a25, \fs20 Swiss \'b7journalist,  essayist, literary historian,\
\li32001Iff., \f4\i 53\
\
\
\li2920\f7\i0 Sainte-Beuve,  Charles-August, \fs18 1804-1869,  \fs20 French literary critic,  \fs18 zo8\
\fs20 St.-John Perse  (Alexis  Saint-Leger Leger), \fs18 1887- , \fs20 French  poet,  No\'ad\
\li3200bel Prize laureate \fs18 1960,4, 16\
\li2940\fs20 Saint-Simon, Due  de, \fs18 1675-I?SS, \fs20 author  of  the  famed  Memoirs,  \fs18 107,\
\li3220208\
\fs20 Schlegel,  Friedrich von, \fs18 1771-1819,  \fs20 German poet,  critic,  literary  his torian, and translator of Shakespeare's plays, \fs18 13, \f4\i 76\
\sl-192\slmult1\li2940\f7\i0\fs20 Schoeps, Hans Joachim,  \fs18 1909- , \fs20 German professor  of religious history,\
\sl-216\slmult1\li3220\f8 U7\
\sl192\slmult1
\f7 Scholem,  Gerhard (Gershom), \fs18 1897-  , \fs20 professor  of Jewish  mysticism in Jerusalem,  \fs14 1, \fs20 4t 9t \fs14 II, \f4\i\fs20 IS, \f7\i0\fs18 I7, 19; \fs20 17, 3St 37t \f4\i\fs30 sz, \f5\i0\fs26 n, \f7\fs18 266\
\sl-168\slmult1\li2960\fs20 Sealsfield, Charles,  \fs18 1793-1864, \fs20 Austrian-hom, later  naturalized Amer\'ad\
\sl240\slmult1\li3220ican author  of adventure stories, \fs18 85\
\sl-240\slmult1\li2940\fs20 Seneca,  Lucius  Annaeus,  \fs18 4  \fs20 n.c.?-A.D. \f4\i\fs18 65, \f7\i0\fs20 Roman  statesman  and  phi\'ad\
\sl-216\slmult1\li3220losopher,  \fs16 3\
\sl240\slmult1\li2960\fs20 Senefelder, Aloys,  \fs18 I77t-r8J4, \fs20 inventor of lithography,  \fs18 177\
\fs20 Severin  Mars\
\sl-216\slmult1\li3220author, director of films, 11.7\
\li2960Shakespeare, William, \fs18 rs64-16r6, 111 \f5\fs20 f.\
\sl240\slmult1
\f7 Simmel, Georg, \fs18 r8s8-r9r8, \fs20 Gennan philosopher and sociologist, \fs18 191\
\sl-240\slmult1
\fs20 Simolin, Baron, book collector, \f4\i 65\
\sl-216\slmult1
\f7\i0 Sophocles, 496?-406 B.c., \fs18 78, 81\
\sl240\slmult1
\fs20 Spinoza,Baruch, \f8 I6J1-t677,6r,\f7\fs12 111\
\sl-192\slmult1
\fs20 Spitzweg, Carl, \fs18 r8o8-r88s, \fs20 German  genre painter, \fs18 68\
\sl240\slmult1
\fs20 Steiner, Rudolf, \fs18 x86r-1915, \fs20 Austrian, founder of anthroposophy, \fs18 114\
\fs20 Stevenson, Robert Louis, \fs18 r8so-r894, 109\
\fs20 Stramm, August,   \fs18 I874-1915, \fs20 German   Expressionist  poet  and   play\'ad\
\li3220wright, \fs18 138\
\sl-216\slmult1\li2960\fs20 Strindberg, August, \fs18 r849-1911, \fs20 Swedish  novelist  and  playwright, \fs18 149\
\sl240\slmult1
\fs20 Sue, Eugene,  \fs18 I8o4-r8s7, \fs20 French author of popular  novels, \fs18 166\
\
\
\fs20 Taylor, Frederick Winslow, \f4\i\fs16 r8s6-r915\bullet  \f7\i0\fs20 American efficiency engineer,\
\li3240\fs16 197\
\
\li3280\qc
\f8\fs18 277\
\
\li2600\ql
\f7\fs20 Thibaudet, Albert, 1874-1936, French literary critic,  169\
\li2880Tieck, Ludwig, 1773-1853, German   poet   and  prose  writer  of  the early  Romantic period,  \fs16 131, 153\
\li2600\fs20 Tocqueville, Alexis de,  r8os-1859t author  of  \f4\i Democracy in America,\
\sl-216\slmult1\li2880\f7\i0 39\
\li2600Tolstoy, Leo, 1828-19Io, \f4\i\fs18 91\
\
\
\sl240\slmult1
\f7\i0\fs20 Unold, \fs22 Max, \fs20 1885- , German  painter, illustrator, graphic  artist, writer,\
\li2880204\
\
\
\li2600Valery,  Paul,  r871-1945, French  poet, critic,  and  essayist, \fs16 91 \fs20 f., 107 f.,\
\li2900\fs16 161 \fs20 f., \fs16 174, 186, 188, 199; 117, 219, 249\
\li2600\fs20 Valles, Jules, r8p-r88s, French  journalist  and novelist,  r63\
\li2880Vamhagen  von  Ense,  Karl   August,   178s-r8s8, German   diplomat, author of biographies and memoirs, 174\
\sl-216\slmult1\li2600Verlaine, Paul, r844-1896, French symbolist poet, 156\
\sl-240\slmult1
Vertoff, Dziga, early  Russian  \f5 film \f7 director, \fs16 131\
\sl240\slmult1
\fs20 Villemessant, Jean Hippolyte Auguste Cartier  de, r8u-1879, 88\
\li2880Voss, Johann  Heinrich, l751-r8z6, German poet, classical philologist, and translator of Homer, Virgil, Horace, etc., 76, \fs16 So\
\
\
\li2600\fs20 Walser, Robe'rt, r878-1965, Swiss prose writer, r \fs16 r6\
\fi5
\fs20 Werlel, Franz,  r89D-1945, Austrian  poet and novelist, u8\'b7 Wickhoff, Franz, \fs16 r853-l909, \fs20 Austrian \fs18 art  \fs20 historian, 1n Wittgenstein, Ludwig,  r889-195 r, philosopher, 49\
\
\
\fi140533
Zola, :Emile, \fs16 r84o-rgo1, \f4\i\fs14 205\
\li3000\f7\i0\fs22 \cf2 $rs.oo \f5 \cf6 U.S\cf7 .A.\
\f7 \cf2 $21.oo Can\cf5 .\
\
\
\
\sl288\slmult1\li3140\qj
\fs20 \cf7 \'b7w\cf6 a\cf7 ller  B\cf5 e \cf2 njamin was on \cf5 e o\cf2 f \cf7 th\cf5 e \cf2 most original \cf5 c\cf2 ultural \cf5 c\cf2 ritics of the twenti\cf12 e\cf2 th  century. \f4\i \cf7 ill\cf6 umina\cf7 ti\cf6 ons  \f7\i0 \cf2 includ \cf5 e\cf2 s \cf7 hi\cf6 s views \cf5 o \cf2 n Kafka\cf5 . \cf2 with whom \cf7 he \cf2 f\cf5 e\cf7 ll \cf6 a \cf7 clo\cf5 se \cf7 p\cf6 e\cf8 rs\cf2 onal aff(nit \cf5 y; \cf2 his \cf6 s\cf7 tudies \cf2 on Baudelaire \cf6 and \cf7 Pr\cf6 ous1; \cf2 and bis \cf5 ess\cf2 ays \cf6 o \cf7 n \cf2 Lesko\cf5 v a \cf7 nd \cf2 on Brecht\cf5 's E.\cf7 pic \cf2 Th\cf5 e\cf2 ate\cf8 r\cf6 . \cf2 Al\cf5 so \cf2 includ\cf5 e\cf2 d ar\cf5 e \cf7 hi\cf5 s \cf2 p\cf5 e \cf2 n\cf5 e\cf2 trating \cf5 s\cf7 tud\cf6 y \cf2 "The Work of AJ\cf5 \'b7t  \cf7 in th \cf6 e Age \cf2 of \cf7 M\cf5 ec\cf2 hanica\cf8 l \cf2 R.\cf5 e\cf2 producl \cf7 ion\cf5 ,\cf2 " \cf6 an \cf5 e \cf2 nlightening discus\cf5 s\cf2 i \cf5 o\cf2 n of tran\cf5 s\cf7 latio\cf6 n \cf5 as \cf2 ali \cf7 tera\cf6 ry \cf7 mode, \cf2 and \cf7 Benj\cf6 ami\cf7 n's \cf2 th\cf5 es\cf2 es on th\cf5 e \cf2 phi\cf8 l\cf6 oso\cf7 ph\cf5 y \cf6 of \cf7 hist \cf6 ory\cf12 .\
\
\sl-192\slmult1\li3160\cf7 Hannah \cf2 Ar\cf5 e \cf7 ndt \cf6 selec\cf7 ted th\cf5 e e\cf2 ssav\cf5 s \cf7 f\cf6 or \cf7 this \cf2 volume and \cf7 intr\cf6 oduces \cf2 th\cf5 em\
\
\sl-216\slmult1\li3140\ql
\cf6 with a \cf2 cla\cf5 ss\cf2 ic \cf5 ess\cf2 ay about\cf13 .\
\sl-336\slmult1\li3020\f5\fs22 \cf2 ' \f7\fs20 n\cf12 '\cf2 s \cf7 lif\cf6 e \cf2 in \cf7 clark \cf2 Limes. Al\cf5 so \cf7 includ\cf5 e\cf2 d \cf7 is\
\sl288\slmult1\li3160\cf2 a \cf7 n\cf6 ew \cf7 prefa\cf5 ce \f5 \cf2 b\cf5 y \f7 \cf7 L\cf6 eon \cf7 \\\cf12 ' \cf7 ie\cf5 se\cf7 lli\cf6 er \cf2 th.\cf5 a \cf8 l \cf5 e\cf7 xpl \cf6 ores \cf2 Benj\cf5 a\cf2 min\cf12 '\cf2 s \cf6 cont\cf7 inu \cf5 e\cf2 d r\cf5 e\cf2 l \cf5 e\cf2 vanc\cf5 e \cf2 for \cf7 our \cf2 times.\
\
\
\
\
\sl240\slmult1\qj
\f5\fs16 WALTE\'a3\\ \cf7 Br:\cf5 N\cf2 J \cf5 A \cf2 rv\cf8 ll\cf6 N\cf2 i\cf5 s  \f7\fs20 \cf7 reco\cf6 gnized \f5\fs16 \cf2 a\cf5 s \f7\fs20 \cf6 one \f5\fs16 \cf2 of \cf7 I\f7\fs20 \cf2 h\cf5 e \cf2 m \cf5 os\cf7 l \cf2 a\cf5 c\cf2 u \fs16 \cf7 l\cf5 e \fs20 \cf2 anal\cf5 ys\cf7 t \cf6 s \cf2 of \cf7 lit \cf5 e\cf2 rnry and \cf5 so\cf2 ciol\cf5 og\cf7 i\cf5 c\cf2 a \cf8 l \cf7 ph \cf5 e\cf2 nomena \cf6 of \cf2 th\cf12 e \cf2 ninet\cf5 ee\cf7 nth \cf2 and tw\cf5 e\cf2 nti\cf5 e\cf7 th\cf5 . \cf6 cent\cf7 ltl'ie\cf6 s. \cf2 H\cf5 e \cf7 died \cf2 in !91\'b70.\
\
\li3140\f4\i\fs18 Refl\cf5 ec\cf2 tions, \f7\i0 the companiort  \cf6 vo\cf7 l \cf6 rune \cf7 to \f4\i \cf2 I\cf5 lfw\cf2 ninal\cf5 ion\cf2 s\cf5 ,  \f7\i0 \cf7 is \cf6 also\
\li3160\fs20 \cf2 availabl\cf5 e \cf7 in \cf5 Sc\cf2 h\cf5 oc\cf7 k\cf6 en  \cf2 pap\cf5 e\cf2 rba\cf5 c\cf2 k.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\li3820\ql
\cf5 Sc\cf7 hock\cf6 en \cf2 \'a3l\cf5 o\cf2 oks, \cf5 New \cf7 York\
\fs16\ul{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.schocken.com/"}}{\fldrslt \cf6 www.sc\cf7 h\cf5 oc\cf2 k\cf5 e\cf7 n\cf6 .com\
}}\ul0 \cf2 ghoo\cf5 7\
\sl-168\slmult1
\cf2 Print\cf5 e\cf2 d \cf7 in th\cf6 e \cf2 U.S\cf6 ..\fs12 \cf2 o\\. \fs16 \cf5 \'a9 \cf2 zoo7 \cf7 fl.1ndom \cf2 House. In\cf5 c\cf13 .\
\
\sl240\slmult1\li5100\f3\fs10 \cf2 I\cf5 . \cf7 ITF.[\\\cf12 .\\ \cf6 1\\\\' \cf2 Ll.oSA\\\cf12 'S.\cf13 . \cf2 I'II \cf5 J \cf2 I.OSOI'II\\\cf13 ' \tab \f7\fs16 \cf2 C\cf5 o\cf2 ver rlc ign\
\
\
\
\
\
}